(CNN)Bill Cosby made things uncomfortable Sunday night on "Celebrity Apprentice."

The beleaguered star isn't a contestant this season on the NBC reality show, which pits teams of celebs against each other for business-related tasks, but his name became embroiled in the season premiere's storyline.

On Sunday NBC aired the first episode, which was filmed before rape and sexual assault allegations began mounting against Cosby. One of the competitors, Keshia Knight Pulliam, is famous for playing beloved youngest daughter Rudy Huxtable on "The Cosby Show."

The actress served as project manager for her all-female team in which the women were trying to raise money for her charity Kamp Kizzy, which seeks to empower girls.

After her team failed to fare as well as they could have in the challenge, they faced a grilling in the boardroom from host Donald Trump. "Real Housewives of Atlanta" cast member Kenya Moore told Trump her teammate declined to reach out to former co-star Cosby for a donation.

"I have not talked to Bill Cosby on the phone in I don't know how long," Knight Pulliam said emotionally. "So for me to pick up the phone, having not talked to you for five years, except for when we run into each other for a Cosby event, I feel that's not my place to do."

Her explanation was unacceptable to Trump, who said, "I really believe, if you'd called that gentleman he would've helped you, even if you hadn't spoken to him in years. Because you were an amazing team with one of the most successful shows ever. So I think it would've been a very good call to make for charity."

Trump "fired" her from the show. While not directly commenting on her ousting from the series, the actress did tweet: "Ohhh the deception of editing... Smh!!"

For his part, Trump tweeted to his followers after that: "This show was taped just before the terrible Bill Cosby revelations came to light. She still should have asked him for money-goes to charity."

@highlight

Keshia Knight Pulliam, who played Rudy on the 'Cosby' show, starred in 'Celebrity Apprentice'

@highlight

Knight Pulliam was ousted after she failed to contact Cosby for help with a charity fund-raising drive

@highlight

Host Donald Trump tweeted that the incident happened before rape allegations against Cosby boiled over(CNN) -- It's being called the most expensive divorce in the history of ... well, marriage.

Russia's Dmitry Rybolovlev, 47, earned the dubious honor when Geneva, Switzerland's Court of First Instance last week ordered the 47-year-old billionaire to pay his wife, Elena, about 4 billion Swiss francs, according to CNN's French affiliate BFM.

That's a little more than $4.5 billion (little being a relative term).

The couple was married for 23 years but have been engaged in divorce proceedings since 2008, BFM reported, citing the Swiss daily newspaper Le Temps.

Rybolovlev, who owns the French soccer team AS Monaco, which finished second in Ligue 1 this season, is No. 148 on Forbes' list of billionaires. His estimated worth is $8.8 billion, according to Forbes.

Known lately for real estate moves -- including the purchases of a $300 million penthouse in Monaco and a $98 million Palm Beach, Florida, mansion owned by Donald Trump, along with his daughter's purchases of an $88 million New York apartment and the Greek island of Skorpios -- Rybolovlev made his original fortune in fertilizer, according to Forbes.

He and his father, a scientist, started their business in 1990, and Rybolovlev began buying shares of industrial enterprises in 1992, Forbes reported.

In 1995, he was named chairman of the board of Uralkali, Russia's top producer of potassium fertilizers, Forbes said. He sold his stake in Uralkali for $6.5 billion in 2010 and procured a controlling stake in AS Monaco the following year.

The divorce puts Rybolovlev in rarefied company, as only French businessman and art dealer Alec Wildenstein and Bernie Ecclestone, the top dog in Formula One racing, have been reported to shell out more than $1 billion in divorce proceedings.

11 intriguing things owned by wealthy Russians

World's 'most expensive divorce' set to halve oligarch's fortune

CNN's Tara Kangarlou contributed to this report.

@highlight

Dmitry Rybolovlev ordered to pay his wife, Elena, more than $4.5 billion, report says

@highlight

He is known most recently for his real estate moves and his purchase of AS Monaco

@highlight

Dmitry and Elena Rybolovlev, both 47, have been married 23 years, according to reports

@highlight

Russian billionaire made his original fortune with Uralkali, a Russian fertilizer company(CNN) -- We are in the middle of a fight to preserve the dignity and grace that makes all of us Americans. We have big hearts and great souls. I know. I have seen them, felt them and watched them in wonder when my family was lost and unreachable in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.

I cried, worrying for those I loved, heartbroken by what happened to our beloved Louisiana. And in the middle of that tough moment, the decency of people shone through in e-mails, phone calls and in person. Everybody was saying the same thing: "How can I help?"

This is what we do in times of struggle. We offer our hand and our love to pull someone up who's been knocked down by hard times and despair. It's just a fundamental rule in life and in any fight; you don't kick people when they're down.

But for some reason, this principle has been lost on the 217 members of the House of Representatives who decided to lace up some combat boots with rough, crushing soles to kick and kick again the 48 million Americans who count on food stamps.

I am not going to mince words. When the House voted to cut $40 billion to the food stamp program over the next 10 years, that wasn't an example of government tightening its belt or making tough choices. That vote wasn't a philosophy or an ideology about governing. Pure and simple, it was a heartless act. It was cruel. It was kicking millions of our families, neighbors and friends when they are down. And the people who work for a living in this country are down.

Let's take a walk through the facts of what's happened to them during the Great Recession and this nonrecovery of the economy.

The median family net worth dropped from $126,400 in 2007 to $77,300 in 2010, according to the Federal Reserve. It gets worse. Median family income fell from $49,600 in 2007 to $45,800 in 2010. (These are the latest available figures).

"The Fed (Federal Reserve) found that middle-class families had sustained the largest percentage losses in both wealth and income during the crisis, limiting their ability and willingness to spend," according to The New York Times.

For 30 years, wages have flat-lined or declined for most workers, particularly in the past 10 years, as low-paying jobs replace middle-income paying jobs. In 2009, only half of the country had any assets, and those numbers have gotten worse during the last three years.

And here's the kicker. Today -- based on wage levels -- half of Americans live in poverty or near poverty.  The gap between the well-to-do and everybody else is widening alarmingly.

Probably everyone reading this knows someone who is striving mightily, working two jobs and cutting expenses to the bone while barely making ends meet.

To be considered poor by federal standards, a family of four must make less than $23,550 a year. A person must make less than $11,490. For the unemployed and the millions who have been looking for work for six months or more, the struggle is many times harder and uglier.

Ask any worker at Starbucks, Cosi, McDonald's or Walmart, "How many jobs do you have?" and likely he or she will tell you: "Two." I know colleagues who've had breakfast at one store, and gone to lunch in another, only to find the same person waiting on them.

One young woman I heard about gets up at 4 a.m. for her first job and ends her day at 10 p.m. at her second job. The average allotment of food stamps is $133 a person a month. Let me tell you something I can pretty much bet my house on -- that woman is not using her food stamp card to buy lobsters and caviar. She's quietly going to the food pantry, checking the sales in the grocery store, spending some time at the kitchen table clipping coupons and making a serious plan to turn that box of pasta, pound of beef, and if she's lucky, some fresh fruits and vegetables, into a meal plan truly worthy of a Gucci belt.

Is there fraud? Yes. Is there some waste? Yes. But today, the food stamp program has an error rate of only 3% -- and those errors were mostly committed by the government in underpayments as well as overpayments and payments to ineligible families.

Fraud is a piece of grain compared with the millions of families who manage to put food on the table because of this program. And those few bad apples who do commit fraud are no excuse to kick the unemployed and the poor when they are engaged in a mighty battle to get themselves and their families back on their feet.

So shame on this Congress for fighting dirty during working people's hour of struggle.

Polls show Americans haven't approved much of Congress lately. But there is a way to gain favor. If this Congress wants to make cuts, why not look at the Pentagon, notorious for waste? Or check out the Department of Agriculture, which made about $28 million in inappropriate farm assistance payments, according to a compilation of government waste reported in Business Insider.

Or perhaps lawmakers could start with themselves? Rep. Jackie Speier, D-California, tried to shame her colleagues into cutting less from the food stamp program (called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP).

Speaking of representatives who would vote to take food from America's tables, she said, "Some of these same members travel to foreign countries under the guise of official business. They dine at lavish restaurants, eating steak, vodka and even caviar."

Speier talked about 20 members of Congress who traveled to Ireland and got a daily food allowance of $166. The average amount a family member gets on food stamps is less than $4 a day.

And The Des Moines Register reported that Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, received $3,588 in taxpayer funds for both food and lodging during a six-day trip to Russia. The Register urged King to try the "SNAP Challenge" and live on $4 a day. He could even try it in Russia.

Yet our representatives, one after the other, mostly Republicans, stepped onto the House floor to speak and vote in the name of saving money for the taxpayer. They went after the poor, the unemployed, the single mom, the single dad, the grandparents -- all those people who are trying to make it work.

Well, they didn't just do wrong; they are wrong. I urge the Senate to restore every single dime to the food stamp program. I applaud the president for saying that he'll veto these cuts.

We're lacing up our shoes, too, but we're going to fight these merciless cuts with the golden rule. You know why? "Do unto others" trumps "kick 'em when they're down" every time. The American people are decent and fair. It's time to stand tall for this essential program for millions. It's time and our might will make this right.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Donna Brazile.

@highlight

Donna Brazile: Americans are generous and help people who are down on their luck

@highlight

Brazile: Lawmakers will take food from poor Americans by cutting food stamps

@highlight

Half of American live in or near poverty, she says, and food stamps help stave off hunger

@highlight

Lawmakers should cut their own lavish expense accounts for steak and wine, she says(CNN) -- No issue has been hotter throughout the run-up to the election than jobs -- and both candidates took pains to tackle the issue during their first debate Wednesday at the University of Denver.

"Over the last 30 months, we've seen 5 million jobs in the private sector created," Democratic incumbent Barack Obama said.

The facts:

In 2009, Obama's first full year in office, people in states across the country were losing their jobs at a startling clip. In Ohio, the unemployment rate was 10.6%.

But over the next few years, the nation saw slow increases in employment in the retail, education and health care sectors. Today, most states are gaining jobs. The key swing state of Ohio now has a 7.2% unemployment rate.

The Bureau of Labor Statistics confirms that a lot of jobs have been created under Obama's leadership -- 4.4 million by the bureau's latest count. What Obama did not say, however, was that the nation shed 4.3 million jobs during the early days of his term, and that the net gain since he took the oath of office in January 2009 is just 125,000 jobs.

Complete coverage of CNN's Fact Checks

Conclusion:

Many voters blame that initial weakness on the fractured economy Obama inherited from his Republican predecessor, former President George W. Bush. But in terms of sheer numbers, Obama's assertion that he created 5 million jobs does not tell the whole story and is therefore false.

Also during the debate, GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney said that 23 million people are out of work in the nation.

"There is suffering in this country," said Romney. "And we talk about evidence. Look at the evidence of the last four years. It's absolutely extraordinary. We've got 23 million people out of work."

The facts:

When the recession began, workers in every category lost jobs, but those in the middle and higher wage groups lost more of them.

And when the jobs started coming back, the lower-wage jobs came back stronger. That means that, while the nation has replaced lost jobs, many of those new jobs pay less than the old ones did.

To reach his 23 million figure, Romney counts everyone who is unemployed, has stopped looking for work or is underemployed -- working for less money than before or able to find only a part-time job.

Conclusion:

Romney is stretching his figures to the breaking point -- which makes his claim false.

What it all means:

If history is any guide, the employment figures could prove key in this race. In August, the U.S. unemployment rate was 8.1%, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. No president has been re-elected with an unemployment rate above 8% since Franklin Roosevelt in the 1930s, during the Great Depression.

Fact Check: Oil and gas production

Fact Check: Is Donald Trump a small businessman?

Fact Check: Seniors drug prices

Fact Check: Green energy

@highlight

President Barack Obama says he created 5 million jobs

@highlight

Mitt Romney says 23 million people are out of work in the nation

@highlight

Employment figures could prove key to this race(CNN) -- Was Barack Obama really born in America?

A new CNN investigation reveals what most analysts have been saying since the "birther" controversy erupted during the 2008 presidential campaign: Obama was born in Hawaii on August 4, 1961. Period.

While the president has made light of the controversy, the question remains political red meat for some of his critics. A recent CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll showed that nearly 75% of Americans believe Obama was definitely or probably born in the United States. More than four in 10 Republicans, however, believe he probably or definitely was not born in America.

Evidence again shows Obama born in Hawaii

The U.S. Constitution says only "natural born" citizens can become president -- a vague clause that some members of the birther movement contend disqualifies Obama because, they insist, he was born outside the United States.

Skeptics contend, among other things, that Obama was born in his father's home country of Kenya. Potential GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump recently seized on the issue, saying he had doubts about Obama's background.

Zakaria: The fantasy of Donald Trump

CNN investigators in Honolulu found nothing to reinforce those doubts.

Dr. Chiyome Fukino, a former director of the Hawaii Department of Health and a Republican, told CNN in her most extensive comments to date that she has "no doubt" Obama was born in the state.

Obama's 2008 campaign produced a certification of live birth, a document legally accepted as confirmation of a birth and routinely used for official purposes. Fukino went one step further, taking advantage of a state law that allows certain public officials to examine a person's actual birth certificate if there is a "direct and tangible interest."

The president's certificate, she said, is stored in a vault in the building that houses the Department of Health. Ironically, unlike the certificate of live birth, it is no longer accepted for official usage.

Obama's certificate is "absolutely authentic," she said. "He was absolutely born here in the state of Hawaii."

Arizona governor criticizes birther "distraction"

To see what happens when someone born in Hawaii requests a birth certificate, CNN asked a current resident of the state -- Stig Waidelich -- if he could get a copy of the document.

Waidelich was born hours after Obama in August 1961. Like Obama, Waidelich's birth was announced at the time in the Honolulu Star-Bulletin newspaper.

Waidelich, like Obama in 2008, was given a certification of live birth in response to his request.

Could Obama's 1961 birth announcement in the Honolulu Star-Bulletin be a fake? Some conspiracy theorists say yes. Longtime Honolulu newspaper reporter Dan Nakaso says no.

"It's not possible," Nakaso said. "Under the system that existed back then, there was no avenue for people to submit information that way. ... The information came directly from the state Department of Health."

Indeed, as CNN confirmed, all birth announcements at the time came directly from hospital birth records.

Trump questions birth certificate

Could Obama, a self-proclaimed Christian, be preventing the distribution of copies of the original birth certificate because it identifies him as a Muslim?

Fukino says no. The original certificate includes no mention of the president's religion. And indeed, other original certificates from that time don't mention faith.

Obama could file a Freedom of Information Act request to view his original birth certificate and make copies. But at this point, the White House maintains, nothing will satisfy the doubters.

Rick Smethurst, a 2008 John McCain voter who now lives in Obama's childhood home in Hawaii, counts himself among the doubters. He said he wants to find someone who saw Obama immediately after the president was born.

Hawaii Gov. Neil Abercrombie said he did. Abercrombie, a Democrat, was friendly with Ann Dunham, Obama's mother, and remembers celebrating the birth.

"Of course, we had no idea at the time that the future president of the United States was that little boy, that little baby," Abercrombie recalled. But "we are very, very happy ... that took place."

Professor Alice Dewey of the University of Hawaii was a faculty adviser to Dunham and also knew the future president when he was a child. She called the controversy "funny." She said there is "no way" Obama wasn't born in the state.

Dewey remembered a conversation in which Dunham compared the birth of Obama with that of his sister, Maya, who was born overseas.

"She said, 'When I had Maya, it was a lot of more difficult because Indonesia doesn't believe in painkillers while you're giving birth. ... Of course, in the United States, giving birth to Barry (Obama's childhood nickname) was quite different and much more comfortable,' " Dewey recalled.

Waidelich's mother, Monika, said she believes she saw Obama in Honolulu's Kapi'olani Medical Center next to her son in 1961.

"In those days, there were hardly any other black babies," she said.

The hospital wouldn't show patient records from 1961, but the state's African-American population was less than 1% at the time.

Regardless of the evidence, there may be no convincing some of those who question the president's origins.

"I find it a bit amusing in the sense that (the issue) keeps resurfacing over and over again," Fukino said. "It really tells us that the whole conspiracy notion is out there (and) that if there is an issue that needs a following, they will find one.

"No matter what you do or say, it make no difference," she said.

Abercrombie, who tried to put an end to the controversy when he became governor, said he hopes that "people who have this political orientation toward the president respect us here in Hawaii."

"Respect his mother and father," the governor urged. "Respect the people I loved and the people that I knew, and the little boy who grew up here in paradise and became president."

That, the evidence suggests, may be easier said than done.

CNN's Alan Silverleib contributed to this report.

Watch Anderson Cooper
360° weeknights 8pm ET. For the latest from AC360° click here.

@highlight

Ex-Hawaii health official says she has "no doubt" President Obama was born in Honolulu

@highlight

Obama in 2008 produced a certification of live birth, a legally accepted document

@highlight

Obama family acquaintances remember the president's birth in 1961 in Hawaii

@highlight

Some critics of the president continue to express doubts about his country of birthDES MOINES, Iowa (CNN)The 2016 Republican presidential race in Iowa got its unofficial start Saturday with a marathon of speeches, giving close to a dozen potential candidates a chance to introduce (or re-introduce) themselves to a core group of caucus-goers roughly one year before the contest.

Immigration and Islamic extremism took front and center as the White House hopefuls sought to test-drive their stump speeches. On style, it was Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz who saw strong receptions from the audience, though support for a wide number of candidates was expressed in the hallways after the event.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie also sought to establish a deeper bond with Iowa. The Hawkeye State receives outsized attention in presidential years thanks to its first-in-the-nation status during the primary season.

Marathon time

For the 10-hour day of back-to-back speeches, "the candidates" -- as they were called --  joined other high-profile Republicans at Hoyt Sherman Place, an old, intricate theater built in 1877 that also became the first public art museum in Des Moines.

Billed as the Iowa Freedom Summit, the event was co-hosted by Citizens United and Rep. Steve King, a revered lawmaker who represents the northwestern part of the state and has considerable clout among the more social conservative and Christian right faction of the party.

It was no secret that it was considered a cattle call for the presidential race. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, for example, said that the reason he ended his Fox News show was for a bigger goal he has in mind.

"It wasn't just so I can go deer hunting every weekend, I can assure you that," he said.

Others were more blatant.

"I am a potential presidential candidate, yes I am," former Hewlett Packard CEO Carly Fiorina told CNN.

Even Palin angled to get in on some of the action, teasing ahead of her appearance Saturday that she was now seriously considering a run. And real estate titan Donald Trump told reporters Saturday that he'll make his decision before June.

"I'm the one person who can make this country great again, that's all I know," he told reporters Saturday. "Nobody else can."

Palin, in her remarks, was less forward. Ticking through a somewhat dizzying and hard-to-follow speech, Palin suggested that the country is ready for a woman leader -- just not Hillary Clinton.

"Hey Iowa, can anyone stop Hillary?" she said, prompting the audience to cheer. "To borrow a phrase, yes we can!"

The class of 2016

The speakers, who were typically allotted 20 minutes, used a bulk of their speeches to share their own personal upbringings. Ben Carson and Christie talked about their strict but sharp mothers, while Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz talked about having pastors as fathers.

Other more well-known names in Iowa — like former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum who won the state's caucuses in 2012 and Huckabee, who won in 2008 — tried to remind Iowans why they picked them in the first place, dipping into their personalities but also focusing on the issues.

Given King's firebrand credentials as an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration, it was no surprise that problems at the border became a focal point in much of the speeches Saturday.

Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, argued "there wouldn't be people coming in here if there wasn't a magnet pulling them in," suggesting there should be criminal punishment for employers who hire undocumented workers.

The main target in the immigration battle, however, was President Barack Obama's executive action to delay deportation for up to five million undocumented immigrants. Or as Palin put it, in her folksy swagger, Obama's decision makes him seem "like an overgrown little boy who's just acting kinda spoiled."

Speakers railed against the President's pledge to use his "pen and his phone" to work around Congress, with immigration as just one example of what many called the president's "overreach."

That was punctuated when DREAM Act Coalition protesters interrupted Rick Perry's speech, leading to one arrest and theater full of Iowans trying to drown out the demonstrators' chants.

The potential candidates also warned about what they see as a dire path for the country, in particular when it comes to foreign policy, a theme that, along with immigration, also seems poised to become a flash point in the 2016 presidential race, unlike in 2012.

Santorum argued that the growth of ISIS is a consequence of the "isolationism" and "weakness" from the Obama's administration. Cruz, like several speakers, said the President will fail in the war on terror if he refuses to use the words "radical Islamic terrorism."

Huckabee blasted Obama for devoting more time to climate change in the State of the Union address than talking about terrorism.

"A beheading is a far greater threat to Americans than a sunburn," Huckabee said.

The issues

There was plenty of the usual Iowa charm on stage, speeches with pig analogies and corn references. And there was more than one reference to how people in Iowa are somehow taller than average.

Shown on a big screen above the stage was an image of a red barn sitting on a green hill surrounded by white fences. Steve King's name — in all caps — was plastered across banners on the stage, as well as the podium.

The contenders also dished out a bevy of red meat, blasting Obamacare, Common Core, the media, Hillary Clinton and the $18 trillion debt. Cruz won huge applause for proposing to place 110,000 IRS employees on the southern border, joking that they'll do a better job at deterring illegal immigration than anything else.

Giving a shout out to the state's newly elected U.S. senator, Joni Ernst, was also a popular item on the agenda for the potential candidates. Nearly all of them referred to her as their "friend," and almost equal amount of affection and time was dedicated to the state's other beloved senator, Chuck Grassley.

Walker, who, like Cruz, paced the stage back and forth as he spoke, delivered an impressive speech that honed in on his record as governor. He talked about implementing voter ID laws, and he painted himself as the valiant warrior who took on the public employees and won during the collective bargaining rights debate of 2011.

He also didn't forget to mention that he's been elected three times in the past four years.

Shortly after his speech, two men, both from Council Bluffs, talked outside about how they were wowed by Walker's remarks.

"If he could do on a nationwide scale what he did in Wisconsin, this country would be," one man, Michael Patomson, started to say, before his friend, Bill Hartzell, interjected: "Transformed. The country would be transformed."

The reception

Many attendees had a hard time picking just one favorite in the line of potential contenders. Several mentioned Fiorina as a surprise hit.

"There was just a pantheon of people to listen to," said Eric Rosenthal of Cedar Rapids.

"Rick Perry was better than last time I heard him — that's good. He needs it," said Ernie Rudolph of Dallas County, Iowa.

Christie also saw a warm reception and contested the idea that a Republican governor of a blue state who has a "Jersey guy" reputation will not connect with voters in Iowa.

"That somehow I'm too loud, I'm too blunt and I'm too direct," Christie said, dismissing the criticism as "conventional wisdom" from Washington pundits. "They're wrong."

Still, he was noticeably different from his usual style. His demeanor was toned down and he read from his prepared remarks on the podium, a stark contrast to his preferred off-the-cuff method.

Some of the chatter in the hallways and to reporters also featured two potential contenders who weren't there: Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney.

Trump put it simply: "Mitt had his chance. He should have won and he choked." As for Bush: "We've had enough of the Bushes."

Sens. Rand Paul and Marco Rubio, as well as Gov. Bobby Jindal, also skipped the event, but given that it's year ahead before Iowans start to caucus, it's unlikely that missing one event will hurt them.

Saturday's event was more of a curtain raiser, giving the first glimpse of what will likely be a competitive Republican primary.

Walker, as he closed his speech, offered a pledge that will likely be mirrored by several of the speakers on stage over the next year: "I'm going to come back many more times."

CNN's Adam Levy contributed to this report.

@highlight

Republicans gathered in Iowa to offer a first glimpse of the 2016 presidential campaign narratives

@highlight

Immigration and terrorism were two of the most common issues discussed

@highlight

Scott Walker and Ted Cruz received strong receptions from the audienceClearwater, Florida (CNN) -- Jury selection in the Casey Anthony murder trial continued Saturday afternoon following the rejection of nine potential jurors, including one man who posted to his Facebook account that he had a "title, cover and all" ready for a book about the case.

Attorneys and Chief Judge Belvin Perry Jr. of the Orange County Superior Court had allowed four potential jurors through from questioning by day's end, one a 22-year-old man who said he paid no attention to the news and another a grandmother of a 2-year-old girl who described herself as "firm and fair."

Anthony, 25, is charged with capital murder in the death of her daughter, 2-year-old Caylee, whose body was found in woods near her family's home in 2008. She has pleaded not guilty.

She faces six other charges, including aggravated child abuse, aggravated manslaughter of a child and misleading law enforcement.

Jury selection is occurring at the Pinellas County courthouse. Candidates were questioned Saturday about everything from their news-watching habits to criminal records.

After questioning and quickly dismissing five jurors Saturday morning for reasons ranging from financial hardship to bias, lawyers and the judge began questioning a 22-year-old man who said he doesn't follow the news "because it's just awful."

Assistant State's Attorney Jeff Ashton questioned whether the man would be able to bear the grim details of the case.

"You've already told us you live your life avoiding unpleasant things like the news," Ashton said. "Are you absolutely sure you can do it?"

"Yes, sir," the candidate replied.

"No doubt in your mind?" Ashton asked.

"No, sir," the man replied.

When asked by lead defense attorney Jose Baez whether his decision would be influenced if Anthony declines to testify on her own behalf, the candidate said "I can definitely understand not wanting to be up here."

The line elicited laughter from nearly everyone in the courtroom, including Anthony.

Anthony's lead defense attorney sought to have the man dismissed for failing to disclose an entanglement with the law over apparent marijuana possession, but the judge refused. He was ordered to stand by for possible duty.

Perry later approved the dismissal of a man who posted on his Facebook page what the potential juror said was a joking reference to a "book coming soon" after announcing he had been called for potential jury duty on a big trial.

"Already have the title, cover and all," Assistant State's Attorney Frank George said in reciting one of the posts.

Also dismissed was a woman who said she had lost a son in a car accident that required an extensive police investigation. She said she viewed the charge that Anthony had lied to investigators as evidence of "guilt by omission."

During the afternoon session, Perry dismissed a man who said he was irrevocably opposed to the death penalty.

After extensive questioning by attorneys, he told a grandmother who remembered "sweet pictures" of Caylee but said she had no preconceived notions of the case to stand by for duty.

The two other jurors who will be contenders for the final jury pool are a woman in her 60s who doesn't own a computer, and a 43-year-old man who said that while he's occasionally seen newspaper headlines that suggest Anthony is guilty, he said he is able to set that aside.

"I've also read that Donald Trump is an alien, and that Elvis is still alive and living in Graceland," the man said.

At the end of the rare Saturday session around 5:30 p.m., the judge said the court would be in recess until 8:30 a.m. Monday.

In allowing the four candidates Saturday to pass to the next phase, the judge and attorneys increased the pool of potential jurors who have not been dismissed for one reason or another to 12, although attorneys still have until the jurors are sworn in to seek their dismissal, according to the judge.

Perry said he would begin swearing in jurors once the number of unrejected candidates reaches 15.

Coming into Saturday's session, eight people were considered viable candidates for the jury.

Twelve jurors and eight alternates will eventually be seated on the jury, which will be moved to and sequestered in Orange County, where the alleged crime happened and where the trial will take place.

Jury selection was moved from Orlando to Clearwater amid intense media coverage of the case, which could make it difficult to select an impartial jury.

Perry said Friday that it is imperative to seat a jury as quickly as possible before more potential jurors are swayed by the media coverage.

"The longer we wait, the more dangers there are," he said.

The goal is to have everything finalized for opening arguments Tuesday in Orlando.

Prosecutors have said they plan to show Anthony used "a substance" to kill her daughter. The girl's skeletal remains were found in December 2008 in woods near the Anthony home after she went missing for six months.

In Session's Michael Christian contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Two more join 10 others who are considered viable jury pool candidates

@highlight

Twelve jurors and eight alternates must be picked before Casey Anthony's trial

@highlight

Opening arguments are planned for Tuesday in Orlando

@highlight

Anthony is accused of killing her daughter, Caylee, and then lying to investigatorsIf you don't get the job done at work, you won't get paid.

But Congress plays by its own rules. Specifically, Congress hasn't passed a budget in almost four years. This is basic -- and required by law. Congress seems to think it's bigger than the law, however, which might help explain one recent poll that found it less popular than root canals, cockroaches and Donald Trump.

That's why an act passed in the House on Wednesday deserves widespread support, as well as Senate passage. It's called "No Budget, No Pay," and it means what it says.

If members of Congress can't pass a budget on time, they wouldn't get paid until they did. Sadly, this low bar seems high. In fact, according to the Washington Post, Congress has passed spending bills on time only four times in the past 30 years.

This is your money. And our elected representatives seem to have forgotten that presenting a stable plan on how to spend the money is a basic part of their job description. Instead, Washington has gotten used to living from continuing resolution to continuing resolution. This ain't the way it's supposed to be. In fact, it is a violation of the 1974 Budget Control Act (PDF).

But somehow, breaking the laws they set for themselves doesn't seem to be an urgent concern to these Congresscrats, despite the fact that the U.S. government spent $3.7 trillion last year (PDF).

The absence of a budget doesn't just violate common sense; there are real dollars and cents costs. Without a budget, it becomes difficult for government to make long-term spending decisions that affect us all.

Now, House Republicans have seized on this idea as part of their bid to extend the debt ceiling deadline until mid-May.  To be clear, this is just kicking the can, but it's still a responsible step in the right direction.

"No Budget, No Pay" was originally proposed by No Labels, a group of Democrats, Republicans and independents dedicated to the politics of problem-solving.  I helped found the citizens' group in 2010 with Mark McKinnon, Nancy Jacobson, Bill Galston, Lisa Borders, Kiki McLean, David Walker and many others. The proposal was the cornerstone of the "Make Congress Work" plan released last year.

The idea was quickly adopted by Republican Dean Heller in the Senate and Democrat Jim Cooper in the House. But it met stiff resistance from other members of Congress who didn't like the idea of personal accountability for institutional dysfunction.

Now, suddenly, after the election results of 2012, there is renewed interest in the idea, largely because it resonates with constituents as such a common sense proposal. "No Budget, No Pay" is a no-brainer.

The proposal is getting support from more than the GOP House leadership.  A large number of centrist "Blue Dog Democrats" have announced their intention to vote for the measure, and the White House released a statement saying it would not try to oppose the measure because it would at least provide a "short term solution to the debt limit."

According to the bill, if lawmakers didn't pass a budget by April 15, their pay would be docked and put in an escrow account until they found a way to work together on this front.  Not incidentally, that's also the reason "No Budget, No Pay" does not violate the 27th Amendment, which forbids salary increases or reductions during a current Congress: Their salary is not being reduced, it is being withheld until they actually do their job.

Time and time again in this divided, dysfunctional Congress, we have seen partisan gridlock fall away only when members' self-interest is at stake. That's why we see the flurry of activity at the end of the year, when members of Congress want to get home for the holidays. Docking their pay would get their attention and focus their mind.

Let me be clear: A long-term solution to the debt ceiling debacles still needs to be found. Congress is now the greatest single impediment to American economic recovery, in large part because a bloc of 50 or so votes on the far right seems enamored with playing chicken with our country's full faith and credit.

The last time we went through this idiotic ideological exercise, America got its AAA credit rating downgraded. Standard and Poors stated the reason clearly: "The effectiveness, stability, and predictability of American policymaking and political institutions have weakened at a time of ongoing fiscal and economic challenges."

But the House GOP vote to at least extend the debt-ceiling deadline and impose a common sense measure like "No Budget, No Pay" is sign of sanity at the start of the second Obama term. It will not solve all our problems, but at least by imposing a degree of personal accountability on members of Congress, it might encourage constructive cooperation instead of last-minute scrambles and hyperpartisan brinksmanship.

If patriotic conscience can't compel Congress to work together, maybe requiring them to have some personal skin in the game will inspire them to do their job.

@highlight

John Avlon: Most people who fail to do their jobs don't get paid

@highlight

Avlon: Congress hasn't passed a budget in nearly four years

@highlight

Congress has passed a budget on time only four times in 30 years, he writes

@highlight

Avlon: House GOP backs bill that would dock lawmakers' pay till budget is passedLong Beach, California (CNN) -- Taylor Wilson is going to create a safer source of nuclear energy, help reduce the world's stockpile of nuclear weapons, screen container ships for weapons and power manned missions to other planets. But first ... he has to graduate high school in May.

Jack Andraka is going to bring his 3-cent screening test for pancreatic, ovarian and lung cancer to market -- an alternative to a standard $800 test. But Jack, 16, hasn't been to high school much lately and isn't even sure he'll graduate.

The two teenagers with Justin Bieber style haircuts wowed the 1,400 people who attended TED2013 this week, fitting the conference's theme: "The Young. The Wise. The Undiscovered." They were among a number of youthful speakers who Time magazine's Ruth Davis Konigsberg called "some of the biggest showstoppers at the annual event."

By contrast, some of the older voices onstage struck notes that were far less hopeful. Northwestern University economist Robert Gordon declared that the era of strong economic growth in the United States is over -- as America faces the headwinds of an aging population, debt, inequality and educational weaknesses; he argued that it's hard to foresee innovations that could have the transformative effect electricity, indoor plumbing and the internal combustion engine had in powering growth in the past century.

Former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm, calling for a private sector-funded "race to the top" among states, lamented the inability of Washington politicians to develop a national energy strategy. She got laughs when she noted that Congress' approval rating is worse than lice, root canals and Donald Trump (although better than that of gonorrhea and meth labs).

TED.com: Granholm's clean energy proposal

And Lawrence Lessig, an author and professor at Harvard Law School, sketched an even starker picture of political dysfunction, a "pathological, democracy-destroying corruption" in which a tiny minority of Americans representing powerful interests use their campaign donations to determine which candidates survive the primaries. Even against long odds, Lessig said the problem is fixable if enough Americans organize to bring about change.

There were other speakers whose inventiveness and ambition were unambiguously upbeat.

Jane Chen spoke about developing a lower-tech method to save the lives of premature and low birthweight babies in regions where access to incubators isn't readily available. Her social enterprise Embrace distributes a specially engineered and heated sleeping bag that provides babies the heat they can't generate on their own until they're developed enough to survive.

Google CEO Sergey Brin demonstrated Google Glass, a smartphone-like piece of headgear that enables access to your contacts, your e-mail, your searches and your photos. His pitch for the device -- now being tested by a select few for $1,500 apiece and due on the market later this year -- is partly that it frees people up from the "nervous habit" of constantly checking their smartphone as they walk: "Is this what you're meant to do with your body?"

TED.com: Amanda Palmer -- the art of asking

David Lang, talked of his Open ROV project, which markets an $800 kit -- using off-the-shelf parts -- for a remotely operated underwater vehicle that gives its makers the ability to explore underwater worlds in James Cameron fashion.

PayPal co-founder Elon Musk didn't mention his recent dispute with a New York Times reporter over the battery range of the all-electric Tesla Model S, but made a case for the car's virtues before describing his effort to market solar panels to homeowners and businesses and his SpaceX commercial venture to the heavens. He screened a video of a reusable 12-story-tall rocket launching, hovering and then returning to a launchpad ready for another flight.

SpaceX capsule reaches International Space Station

Keller Rinaudo demoed Romo, a $150 iPhone-powered robot that recently launched. It uses the brains of the phone's computer chip, its camera and a plastic chassis with tank-style treads to zip around a room, express emotions, interact with owners, kids and pets, and function as "Skype on wheels" for grandparents dropping in for a virtual visit.

Edith Widder, part of the three-person team that developed the device that lured a giant squid to an underwater camera, explained how it was able to get the first-ever video displaying the enormous size and intricacy of the animal in the deep ocean.

13-year old invents system to protect family livestock from lions

Ron Finley, an activist in South Central Los Angeles, is leading an effort to counter the neighborhood's "food desert," by growing fruits and vegetables on city owned and private land. "If kids grow kale, they'll eat kale," he said. "If kids grow tomatoes, they'll eat tomatoes."

Renowned photographer SebastiÃ£o Salgado showed finely etched works from his forthcoming book "Genesis," a 50-pound, $3,000 behemoth (there's a less elegant and smaller version for under $70) that does justice to the detail of his exquisitely composed black and white photos shot around the world.

TED.com: Sugata Mitra -- build a school in the cloud

Stewart Brand, the 78-year-old technologist who came to fame as editor of "The Whole Earth Catalog," introduced an ambitious plan to recreate extinct species, using DNA from museum specimens. The effort, echoing "Jurassic Park", won't bring back dinosaurs -- their DNA didn't survive the tens of millions of years since they disappeared -- but aims to "de-extinct" such species as the passenger pigeon, declared extinct in 1914.

TED normally attracts an audience of the elite of Silicon Valley, Hollywood and venture capital, along with foundation and corporate CEOs, who pay $7,500 for the five-day event, which is moving next year from Long Beach to Vancouver. (CNN has a partnership with TED in which it publishes selected TED Talks along with text pieces by speakers).

TED stands for "technology, entertainment and design," although its subject matter has branched out widely since its founding nearly 30 years ago.

The ingenuity of this year's youthful speakers was remarkable, and so was the confident way they expressed their ideas. Wilson, 18, is finishing high school while also attending the University of Nevada at Reno. He first attracted attention for creating a nuclear fusion reactor at 14.

In his TED Talk, he argued for an alternative to the most widely used nuclear power technologies.

Rather than create electricity by heating water and turning a turbine, Wilson's new reactor would use nuclear fission to produce energy from molten salt. His plan would be to centrally manufacture small fission reactors and distribute them widely for burial underground. He said they could last for 30 years without refueling, compared with 18 months for larger commercial reactors.

Since the reactors would not be pressurized, radioactivity would not be expelled as widely into the environment as in an accident like the Fukushima disaster, Wilson said. Costs would be lower since reactors would not have to be built onsite. Nuclear weapons could be recycled in the reactor, he said. And most exciting to the young space geek, such a reactor could power a spaceship to a distant planet and then be the power source for a human base at the destination, he said.

Andraka, who's 16 and a high school sophomore, won the top prize in the Intel Science Fair competition for his cancer screening test, which relies in part on carbon nanotubes to detect a protein that is present in the blood and urine in the early stages of the three deadly cancers, providing hope that they can be detected in time for a successful cure.

He told CNN in an interview that he doesn't go to high school much anymore but is busy with other projects -- including inventing an MRI the size of a credit card and leading a team of high school students competing for the $10 million Tricorder X Prize to design a handheld device people could use to monitor their health.

Andraka and Wilson probably don't have to worry about it but another speaker added a sobering element to the celebration of youth at TED. Meg Jay, a psychologist and author, argued against the idea that the 20s are a period of extended adolescence where people can postpone key life choices. By the time people reach 30, they may have missed out on some key chances to take their life in the directions they hope to pursue. "Thirty is not the new twenty," she said, urging people to "claim your adulthood" and start making choices.

Spoken word poet Shane Koyczan, a 36-year-old whose new video "To This Day" has attracted 5.5 million views, offered a reminder that for all that young people can achieve, many still carry a heavy burden. He told of being bullied as a child to the point that, without realizing it, he turned into a bully himself. He spoke of kids being called names, making them feel like "oddities juggling depression and loneliness" and challenged them:

"if you can't see anything beautiful about yourself

get a better mirror

look a little closer

stare a little longer

because there's something inside you

that made you keep trying

despite everyone who told you to quit"

@highlight

TED2013 conference theme was "The Young. The Wise. The Undiscovered"

@highlight

Speakers included a mix of young and older voices, many with ambitious ideas

@highlight

One 18-year-old with nuclear reactor experience proposed a different power plant design

@highlight

Older voices expressed concern about economic and political challenges facing America(CNN) -- Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev is set to lose half his wealth after being ordered to pay his former wife $4.5 billion in a settlement dubbed the "most expensive divorce in history."

Elena Rybolovleva's lawyer Marc Bonnant said the order from a Geneva court was unprecedented, and "this record judgment is a complete victory."

However, Rybolovlev's spokesman Sergey Chernitsyn said the divorce was still a "win" for the oligarch. The two had been battling over the settlement for six years, after Elena Rybolovleva, the oligarch's wife of 23 years, filed for divorce.

Rybolovlev's total wealth is estimated at $8.8 billion, according to the 2014 Forbes list of billionaires.

He made most of his money from the $6.5 billion sale of his stake in Russia's largest potassium fertilizer company in 2010. Rybolovlev is also known as the owner of the Monaco Football Club, which plays in the top French soccer league.

Rybolovlev made headlines when he bought the Palm Beach Maison de L'Amitie from Donald Trump for reported $95 million in 2008. In 2012, the Rybolovlev's then 21-year-old daughter Ekaterina bought Manhattan's most expensive apartment -- the penthouse on Central Park West which cost $88 million.

A trust set up in Ekaterina's name also reportedly own Scorpios, the Greek island where Jackie Kennedy married the former owner of the island, Aristotle Onassis, in 1968.

The oligarch's lawyers will appeal against the decision, questioning the sum. "There will definitely be a new appellate review and therefore this judgment is not final given the existence of two levels of appeal in Switzerland," said Tetiana Bersheda, Rybolovlev's lawyer.

Read more: 11 intriguing things owned by wealthy Russians

@highlight

Dmitry Rybolovlev ordered to pay his former wife $4.5 billion in a divorce settlement

@highlight

Rybolovlev's total wealth is estimated at $8.8 billion, according to Forbes

@highlight

Elena Rybolovleva's lawyer called the settlement a "record judgment"As televised theater, it was hard to beat. As political prognostication, it was a head-scratching moment. As partisan warfare, it was nothing short of audacious.

But Karl Rove's insistence that Barack Obama had not carried Ohio -- despite the call by his own network, Fox News, that the president had done just that -- represented something larger. It captured, for some long and awkward moments, the refusal of some in the media-and-politics game to accept reality.

And that has been a recurring pattern this year.

We're not talking here about a bad judgment call by a pundit. Everyone in the commentary business, including yours truly, has made those. If failed predictions were a felony, the jails would be filled with media folks.

Watch: Karl Rove rejects reality on Fox News

Rove, to be sure, is a smart guy. He wasn't called George W. Bush's architect for nothing. He helped his guy win two presidential elections. He knows polls inside out.

But Rove occupies a rather unique perch at Fox, and not just because he jumped from the Bush White House to the role of conservative cable commentator.

Rove, who also has a Wall Street Journal column, helped create two political action committees, American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Political Strategies, that raised and spent about $175 million in this campaign, most of it on television ads promoting Mitt Romney or attacking Obama. He was, in every sense of the word, a full-fledged political player.

But he was also Fox's most visible contributor, appearing far more often than Sarah Palin, delivering his political insights on shows from morning to night.

Watch: Media still go wild for Donald Trump, who drove Romney nuts

Fox isn't the only news channel to employ active partisans -- CNN has a few, too -- and media organizations long ago decided to blur the line between journalism and politics.

I know the ties are generally disclosed, but personally, I wouldn't allow anyone who raises money or holds a party position to be on a news organization's payroll. Why should viewers think they're getting anything but one-sided spin?

Still, Rove undoubtedly wants to preserve his reputation as a political seer, which is why it was so stunning when he went rogue on Tuesday night.

It was a moment of high drama.

Fox News, CNN and MSNBC were each in the process of calling Ohio -- and thus the presidential race -- for Obama. But Rove began arguing with his Fox colleagues.

"I don't know what the outcome is gonna be, but you shouldn't, you gotta be careful about calling things when you've got something like 991 votes separating the two candidates and a quarter of the vote left to count," he said. "Even if they had made it on the basis of select precincts, I'd be very cautious about intruding in this process."

Rove was, of course, wrong; Obama won Ohio, and a second term. But what is striking is that he was challenging the decision-desk professionals at his network in a way that looked like he refused to accept the country's judgment.

Watch: Blame game -- the knives are out for Romney world

This, unfortunately, has been a recurring theme all year. When Romney was down in the polls, some conservatives complained that media organizations were putting out biased surveys (which led to such sites as unskewedpolls.com). When unemployment dropped in September, even critics as prominent as Jack Welch accused the Obama administration of cooking the books without a scintilla of evidence.

And when Nate Silver, The New York Times' number-crunching blogger, predicted Obama had a 90% chance of winning, conservatives accused him of bias. Turns out he called the outcome correctly in every state.

Watch: Turns out 'liberal' media were right about Obama

Donald Trump, who hardly distinguished himself in this campaign by pushing the birther nonsense, ranted on Twitter on Election Night that Obama's victory was a "disgusting injustice." So he not only doesn't accept that the president was born in Hawaii, he doesn't accept that Obama won the election fair and square.

I wouldn't suggest that Rove believes in any of this conspiracy stuff, though he doubled down on Thursday by saying the president won by having "suppressed the vote," which flies in the face of Obama's efforts to boost turnout. But for a brief moment on Election Night, we got a glimpse of pure partisanship in the guise of journalism.

@highlight

Howard Kurtz: Karl Rove challenged his own network's pros on Election Night

@highlight

The Fox decision team called Ohio for Obama, but Rove refused to accept it

@highlight

Kurtz points out conservatives challenged accuracy of polls and of the unemployment stats

@highlight

He says the Rove incident was a case of partisanship in the guise of journalism(CNN) -- Republican nominee Mitt Romney has frequently railed against efforts championed by President Barack Obama steering money to promote "green energy."

He continued that line of attack Wednesday night, decrying what he described as "$90 billion in breaks to the green energy world."

"These businesses, many of them have gone out of business -- I think about half of them -- of the ones that have been invested in have gone out of business," the former Massachusetts governor said.

So are Romney's assertions correct, both about the size of the "green energy" program and what happened to those companies that got money from it?

The facts:

The Department of Energy proudly touts that the 2009 stimulus authorized $90 billion "in government investments and tax incentives to lay the foundation for the clean energy economy of our future."

Fact Check: Is Donald Trump a small business?

But not all that money has been spent, and not all of it -- in fact, not even half of it -- is being directed to upstart green businesses.

Part of 2009's much larger $787 billion stimulus package, this money went toward things like the weatherization of more than 770,000 homes and cleaning 688 square miles of land formerly used for Cold War-era nuclear testing.

Many individual companies did benefit directly. The government website that tracks stimulus spending lists 27,226 individual awards under the "Energy/Environment" section, totaling just shy of $34 billion.

The Department of Energy this June specified "33 clean energy projects" of a larger scale as part of its "loans program." Of those, financing had been "closed" on 20 of them. The intent was to promote new technologies and approaches, not necessarily old ones.

There are also other things such as high speed rail and smart meters -- which are listed elsewhere, under "Infrastructure," as part of the same overarching stimulus legislation. Accounting for things like that, a report from the Brookings Institution non-partisan think tank this April tabbed the total green stimulus spending at $51 billion.

Then, there's the matter of whether half of those companies that have gotten money "have gone out of business."

A few recipients of the government funds have hit hard times. The most well-known of them is solar panel maker Solyndra, which received a $535 million loan guarantee from the Department of Energy. Two years later, it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.

Fact Check: Oil and natural gas production under Obama

Still, it is unclear where Romney got his figure that "half" those businesses are no longer operating.

The Energy Department cites several success stories like one of the world's largest wind farms in eastern Oregon, massive solar power plants in Arizona and grants to Ford to produce fuel-efficient cars.

In fact, of the 28 funded projects -- involving 23 companies -- listed in a 2012 congressional report, only four involve businesses that were either sold or are not in operation.

Conclusion:

It is fair to say that the 2009 stimulus authorized $90 billion for green energy, as Romney asserted. Whether or not one terms these as "breaks" is subjective, and one shouldn't assume that all the funds went to specific businesses like Solyndra.

Most of the large projects that benefited from the Department of Energy loan program remain in operation -- contrary to Romney's assertion that "almost half" of them had closed.

Complete coverage of CNN's Fact Checks

CNN's Julie In and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.

@highlight

Mitt Romney decries "$90 billion in breaks to the green energy world"

@highlight

He says "about half" of green firms aided by the 2009 stimulus are "out of business"

@highlight

Despite flame-outs like Solyndra, most businesses appear to be still operational(CNN) -- Joan Rivers started her career as a stand-up comedian quick to poke fun at herself -- at her body, her family responsibilities and being a misfit within an unaccommodating world.

By the time she died Thursday at 81, Rivers had become a worldwide celebrity. But she was still a misfit, biting the well-groomed hands that fed her.

The comedian was quick-witted and sharp-tongued, known for standing on the red carpet or presiding over her show "Fashion Police" and, she said, saying the things that other people were thinking.

Rivers, the pioneering, sassy comedian whose gossipy "can we talk" persona led to a career as a headlining talk-show host, best-selling author and red-carpet maven, died a week after being rushed to the hospital after suffering cardiac arrest at a Manhattan clinic.

"My mother's greatest joy in life was to make people laugh. Although that is difficult to do right now, I know her final wish would be that we return to laughing soon," said her daughter, Melissa, in a statement.

Joan Rivers dies at age 81

Rivers' initial rise to fame was propelled by jokes about herself and her family duties.

"I hate housework," went one of her jokes. "You make the beds, you do the dishes and six months later you have to start all over again."

"I blame my mother for my poor sex life," went another. "All she told me was 'the man goes on top and the woman underneath.' For three years my husband and I slept in bunk beds."

Rivers in her own words

Over time, her self-mocking shtick gave way to more pointed comedy, with shrewd and cutting insults aimed at celebrities and politicians. Comedians such as Roseanne Barr, Sarah Silverman, Kathy Griffin and Chelsea Handler owe a great deal to Rivers' brash, commanding personality, which was unusual when she first came up.

"My heart is torn in half," said Silverman in a tweet. "She wasn't done."

iReport: Share your memories of Joan Rivers

She was a popular talk-show guest, most notably on Johnny Carson's "Tonight Show," and used that platform to become one of Carson's regular guest hosts -- and, in 1983, his permanent guest host.

But their relationship was severed when, in 1986, she became the host of her own talk show on Fox, then a new television network. Her show would air opposite the "Tonight Show." Carson, feeling betrayed, cut her off cold. She didn't appear on the "Tonight Show" again until Jimmy Fallon took over as host earlier this year.

Rivers' Fox talk show was short-lived and its cancellation coincided with a dark period in her life, including the suicide of her husband-manager, Edgar Rosenberg, three months after the show was pulled.

Still, the comedian eventually bounced back, first with a daytime talk show, then as co-host with daughter Melissa of E!'s red-carpet coverage. The two Rivers became mainstays of awards season -- later for the TV Guide Channel -- with Joan known for mocking celebrities and their outfits there and on the show "Fashion Police."

Rivers also became known for her extensive plastic surgery, which -- in typical Rivers fashion -- she flaunted rather than played down.

"I've had so much plastic surgery, when I die they will donate my body to Tupperware," she said.

'Screaming her way through life'

Joan Alexandra Molinsky was born June 8, 1933, in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of a doctor. Her childhood home wasn't always a happy one; her mother, though gifted with a strong sense of humor, was critical, and her father was softhearted but tight with a dollar. Her parents argued over money regularly. Rivers attended Barnard College and had dreams of making it as an actress, a dream both parents discouraged.

After giving up performing after college, she had a brief marriage, and then turned to comedy. She became a regular at Greenwich Village coffeehouses and was part of Chicago's Second City comedy troupe for a time.

A 1965 booking on Carson made her career. She soon had her own talk show and kept up regular appearances on "Tonight" and several talk and variety programs.

She met Rosenberg in 1965, not long after the Carson appearance. They married four days later. The two maintained a you-and-me-against-the-world attitude, as noted in a 1987 People article after Rosenberg's suicide.

"Joan and Edgar, pursued by the same ghosts and hurts, feeling mutually threatened by adversaries real and imagined, trusted only each other and existed as an island built from intense and protective loyalty," wrote the magazine's Richard Meryman.

Rivers summed up the impact of his death bluntly, of course.

"All that happened to me," she told The New York Times, "was my husband committed suicide, my daughter didn't talk to me for two years, and I was broke."

A year after Rosenberg's death, she joined the cast of Neil Simon's "Broadway Bound." Indeed, she often took refuge in work, whether it was writing books, mocking celebrities, starring in Las Vegas or even appearing in a documentary about her life, 2010's "Joan Rivers: A Piece of Work."

Rivers was often a polarizing figure, recognized for her wit but feared for her underlying wrath. She was well aware of her personality, once describing herself as "screaming her way through life."

Her relentlessness could serve her well, however. In 2009, she won an edition of Donald Trump's "Celebrity Apprentice."

"She had unbelievable stamina," said Trump Thursday.

Some of the criticism she faced was standard Hollywood fare. In 1978, Rivers directed a movie, "Rabbit Test," starring Billy Crystal as the world's first pregnant man. The reviews were mediocre.

"I sat in the midst of an audience that broke its silence only to yawn, take orders for popcorn, and (in the case of audience members under 5) break into tears," wrote Roger Ebert, giving the film one star.

Rivers shrugged that off. "Seventy percent of the critics have hated my movie," she told Ebert. "The other 30% were geniuses, knew their work and were sensually attractive." Nevertheless, she never directed again.

'It's my job to make them laugh'

More recently, her red-carpet quips and "Fashion Police" commentary got her attacked as cruel. In 2013, Jennifer Lawrence noted of Rivers' chatter, "They put values in all the things that are wrong and show that it's OK to just point at people and call them ugly and call them fat and they call it fun."

Rivers immediately struck back: "She has been touched up more than a choirboy at the Vatican," she told the New York Post.

And earlier this year, she abruptly left a CNN interview when asked about her "mean" reputation.

She was also criticized for comments about the Cleveland kidnap victims, the Gaza conflict and for calling first lady Michelle Obama "a trans."

Always, Rivers soldiered on. "I don't want a warm hand on my shoulder. I don't want sympathy audiences. It's my job to make them laugh, and I'm a professional, and my husband was a professional," she told People two weeks after her husband died.

She earned several honors over her career. She was nominated for a Grammy and a Tony, and won a Daytime Emmy for her early-'90s talk show. She had a successful jewelry line that she sold on QVC.

She almost never apologized and rarely looked back. After all, she said, it was her bluntness that made her who she was.

"I succeeded by saying what everyone else is thinking," she said.

Rivers is survived by her daughter, Melissa, and a grandson, Cooper.

People we've lost in 2014

See more about the people of comedy at CNN Comedy.

@highlight

Joan Rivers was brash, popular comedian and host

@highlight

Rivers got her big break with appearance on "Tonight Show"

@highlight

She later had her own talk shows, was a red-carpet maven

@highlight

Despite criticism, tragedy, she constantly soldiered forwardNew York (CNN) -- Among the political threats wielded by Donald Trump in his carnival barker quest for the presidency is that if denied the Republican nomination, he would run as an independent.

As an independent myself, I usually cheer the prospect of any independent campaign. It shakes up the arrogant assumption that our elections are wholly owned subsidiaries of the two major parties and their respective special interests.

But Trump has already burned his bridges with most independent voters by choosing to go full birther and pander to the far right wing of the GOP.

It's a shame because in his purely CEO persona, Trump could have mounted a semi-credible independent campaign. Look at what Ross Perot was able to accomplish with such an appeal nearly 20 years ago or what Mayor Michael Bloomberg has done in New York to date.

An independent candidate running on a proven record of executive leadership, job creation and improving American competitiveness could be a serious presidential candidate this time around. Especially because a new Washington Post/ABC poll shows that 41% of American voters now identify as independents. We are the plurality and provide the balance of power in any election.

Independent voters tend to be closer to Republicans on economic issues and closer to Democrats on social issues. In other words, they are fiscally conservative but socially liberal. They hate hyper-partisanship and special-interest gridlock in Washington, and they have been deficit hawks since at least the days of Perot.

It's perhaps useful to remember that Perot campaigned primarily on reducing the deficit and the debt at a time when America was struggling to get out of a recession and many people thought that Japan was a rising power that would eclipse the United States. Now, many of those same conditions exist, with China taking the place of Japan in the "Rise and Fall of Great Powers" narrative.

But crucially, Perot was decidedly liberal-to-libertarian in his social beliefs. He was avowedly abortion rights and even back then supported gays in the military. The CEO candidate is usually liberated from social issue litmus tests by saying that what people do in their private lives doesn't affect on-the-job performance. A guy such as Trump could embody the old libertarian line, "I want the government out of the boardroom and the bedroom." Many would cheer.

But instead, Trump has done a 180-degree reversal on abortion (like Mitt Romney before him) in the hopes of winning the GOP nomination, because abortion-rights Republicans have become an endangered species despite the endurance of "individual freedom" rhetoric. (We can get into how Barry Goldwater's wife co-founded Arizona Planned Parenthood in the 1930s another time.)

Even worse, he made a strategic decision to pander to the outer reaches of American politics by embracing thoroughly discredited conspiracy theories to drum up support from the fringe. This has succeeded in the short run, compounded by his already high name recognition. But it will hurt both Trump and the GOP in the long run, while nuking any hope he had of appealing to independent voters.

If Trump were to try and run as an independent, he could still win enough votes to poll in the low single digits of the popular vote, as Pat Buchanan did before him. But given his super-rich persona -- now added to his opportunistic endorsement of Obama Derangement Syndrome -- his votes would come entirely out of the Republican nominee's hide, opening the door for President Obama's re-election.

In contrast, Perot's independent campaign won 19% of the popular vote in 1992 -- coming in second in terms of all-time independent presidential candidacies to Theodore Roosevelt's Progressive Party presidential campaign in 1912. They won votes from the vast vital center of the American electorate. Trump would not.

Trump has debased himself and any ideas he had of a political career with the serial idiocies he's articulated in this flirtation with a presidential campaign.

Of course, there will be a cadre of political consultants who encourage him to run because they see dollar signs in their eyes, not because they are thinking of the good of the republic. This is predictable but pathetic.

Independent voters are now the largest and fastest-growing segment of the electorate. At the end of the day, we decide which party will win control of Congress or which candidate will win the presidency. But a candidate who panders to the extremes and parades his own irresponsibility cannot assume that he'll win independent votes just because he slaps the independent label on a self-funded candidacy.

A credible independent candidate needs to be a consistent advocate for the principled positions independent voters care about -- reducing the deficit and debt while combating hyper-partisanship.

Trump made a decision to inflame polarization in the pursuit of self-promotion. As a result, he sacrificed his right to be taken seriously as well as any claims he had to represent independent voters credibly in the 2012 election.

The opinions expressed in this column are solely those of John Avlon.

@highlight

Donald Trump changed his party enrollment this week from GOP to unaffiliated

@highlight

In a column published in April, John Avlon explores Trump's prospects as an independent candidate

@highlight

Avlon: Trump's embrace of birther rhetoric would doom his appeal to most independent voters(CNN)Jeb Bush will make his first scheduled appearance this year to the critically important state of Iowa next month for the Iowa Agriculture Summit in Des Moines on March 7.

Bush's spokeswoman, Kristy Campbell, confirmed Wednesday that Bush will attend the event in the Hawkeye State, which holds the first nominating contests in presidential election years.

Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and real estate titan Donald Trump are also confirmed for the event.

Other invited speakers include a range of potential Republican and Democratic presidential candidates, including Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden. Bush's scheduled speaking slot was first reported by the Des Moines Register.

The former Florida governor makes his first major public address Wednesday since announcing in December he was actively exploring a presidential bid, though he hasn't officially announced a campaign. He's set to pitch a message at the Detroit Economic Club that he's a "reform conservative" and will offer an optimistic view for how to help the middle class.

Bush skipped the most recent cattle call in Iowa last month, when close to 10 potential GOP presidential candidates addressed an assembly of core caucus goers in Des Moines.

RELATED: Jeb's invisible man strategy

His absence seemed to be welcomed by many activists at the event. He was a frequent punching bag for some of the speakers — Donald Trump said to big applause: "The last thing we need is another Bush" — and the former governor's push for Common Core education standards was an even bigger target that day. New Hampshire State Rep. Bill O'Brien blasted the idea of "nominating a liberal supporter of Common Core because he has a familiar name."

A recent Iowa poll also showed troubling signs for Bush. He garnered 8% support among likely Republican caucus goers, falling behind Scott Walker at 15%, Rand Paul at 14%, Mike Huckabee at 10% and Ben Carson at 9%.

The Hawkeye State is already seeing a range of potential candidates making stops in the state. Sen. Rand Paul will be there on Friday and Saturday for an "Audit the Fed" rally and to attend an Iowa State University basketball game.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie speaks at a Dallas County GOP event in Iowa on Monday.

CNN's Jeremy Diamond and Dana Bash contributed to this report.

@highlight

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush will attend an agriculture summit in Iowa next month

@highlight

It'll be his first scheduled appearance in the Hawkeye State

@highlight

Iowa holds the first nominating contest in presidential election years(CNN) -- "No one's ever asked to see my birth certificate. They know that this is the place that I was born and raised."

With that comment to a crowd in Michigan, Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney officially embraced the "birther" movement and touched off a firestorm of protest across the airwaves and internet.

Of course, those protesting didn't include his live audience or the extremists on the right. Nor, given Romney's embrace of Donald Trump, should we be surprised by this joke-that's-not-a-joke. Ari Melber of The Nation put it succinctly: "Jokes can be more revealing than talking points."

But what, exactly, did Romney reveal with this pre-meditated "offhand" remark? That he's courting the radical right? He already chose Paul Ryan as his vice-presidential nominee. That he's pandering to the right-wing noise machine and the corporate special interest propaganda machine? We already know that because he appears on media friendly to the right but limits the number and kind of questions reporters can ask him, and then responds with dodging answers.

Opinion: Election a stark choice on America's future

That he's following the Bush-Cheney-Rove "keep it vague, keep them afraid" playbook? Commentators and analysts have been pointing this out since Romney entered the campaign.

Romney -- hiding behind the plausible deniability that it was just a joke, with a wink and a nod to the extremists in his base -- tried to divert attention from the ABC's haunting his campaign: Akin, Bain, "Corporations are people." His comment has the added benefit of satisfying his most fervent supporters and those anonymous supporters bankrolling one of the most misleading advertising campaigns, a blitzkrieg that strikes just the right partisan undertones.

The real story is that there's nothing unusual about the remark. It's no more in the gutter than a lot of things that have been said about President Barack Obama since coming into office. It's just one more insinuation designed to distract us from the most disconcerting weaknesses of Romney's candidacy -- that he fails to offer details about his policy proposals and stubbornly refuses to disclose more than two years of tax returns.

But it is sad and revealing, nevertheless. It is sad that a campaign stretch that began with his asking Obama to stop apologizing for America (something fact checkers noted the president never did) and roundly debunked welfare attack ad ended with a xenophobic and roundly debunked birther reference. And it reveals not just moral turpitude, but moral vacuity.

His birth certificate dog-whistles are not just desperate, they are deliberate. Romney is campaigning as if he feels he is entitled to the White House -- that, like a feudal lord or European aristocrat, he does not have to answer questions, he does not have to be forthright, he does not have to be honest.

It also reveals, as so much before it has done, that he believes the American people are too ignorant, too indifferent, too lazy, too afraid to bother and that we can be fooled. He also knows that the American press will, after huffing and puffing, give him a free pass on this one, too.

How we respond to Romney's remark will reveal a lot about us, as well. Will we get what he's doing? Will we reject the noxious condescension and the patronizing? Will we demand an open and honest accounting of his business dealings? If he wants to be in charge of our business, we should see how he's run his.

Isaac could hinder GOP chance to define Romney at convention

The media, too, will reveal a lot about itself by its response. Outrage, shock, tongue-clicking - these are superficial and useless. Allowing Romney to backpedal -- "it's only a joke" -- misses the point. The media needs to press for policy specifics and contrast claims with facts.

As I said, we shouldn't be surprised by Romney's remark. Trying to pretend that somehow Obama is not an American-born leader, or questioning his patrioism, or his values by using the Big Lie often speaks in code. But let's decode some of the implications:

-- Show us your birth certificate, but I won't show you my tax returns.

-- You need to prove your identity to vote, but my super PAC allies don't need to identify their donors.

-- I'll lie about Obama's plans, but won't explain my own.

-- I'll blame Obama for the problems he didn't cause, and take credit for his solutions that work.

Romney's birther remark was less a surprise than a confirmation that his moral compass is off center.

Mr. Romney, America's not an aristocracy. It's not where you were born -- in a cabin or a mansion -- or how you were raised -- in poverty by a single parent or with money and privilege -- that matters.

It matters where you go and what you do. It's who you help, what you're willing to sacrifice, and how honest you are.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Donna Brazile.

@highlight

Donna Brazile: Mitt Romney's birth certificate "joke" wasn't innocuous

@highlight

She says it's part of a campaign that uses coded messages to devalue the president

@highlight

Brazile: Romney wrongly accused Obama of weakening welfare reform

@highlight

She says Romney is seeking to distract attention from questions he won't answerFirst, immigrants steal Americans' jobs. And now foreigners are stealing Americans' rightful place on U.S. postage stamps!

OK, maybe that's a bit of an exaggeration. But a new line of Harry Potter stamps released this week by the U.S. Postal Service has outraged some stamp enthusiasts.  As the former head of the American Philatelic Society (that's a stamp collecting society to the rest of us) noted:  "Harry Potter is not American. It's foreign, and it's so blatantly commercial it's off the charts."

First off, can a fictitious teenage wizard ever become a U.S. citizen?  Secondly, and far more importantly, the Postal Service is in a financial "hot mess."  It's losing $25 million every day. And for the 2013 fiscal year, which ended September 30, the USPS ran up a deficit of $5 billion.

At this point, I'd be all for a stamp bearing the image of Toronto Mayor Rob Ford smoking crack if that could generate revenue.  That's preferable to higher deficits, drastic cuts in services and increases in stamp prices.

Look, I understand that one of the mandates of the Postal Service is, "portraying the American experience to a world audience through the issuance of postage stamps." But the "American experience" is not just colored by U.S. citizens.

Plus Harry Potter and his cast of cohorts are not the first non-U.S. citizens to grace our stamps. Mexican painter Frida Kahlo, Mother Theresa and French singer Edith Piaf have all been featured on past stamps.

This is not the first time a new set of stamps has caused controversy.  In 2001, the Postal Service came under fire from some on the right when it released the Frida Kahlo stamp because she was a Communist, a Mexican and a bisexual. In fact, the late Republican Senator Jesse Helms denounced the stamp on the Senate floor.

Some have even objected to stamps honoring Mother Theresa, celebrating the Muslim Eid holiday, or bearing the image of the famed Botticelli painting of the Virgin Mary holding the baby Jesus. Why?  Because they were troubled by the religious implications.

It appears, though, that the real reason for the uproar over the Harry Potter stamp isn't his citizenship status. Rather, it's because stamp purists are dismayed by the increasing commercialization of U.S. postage stamps.  As one collector said: "They shouldn't be reduced to the latest fads, whatever's going to sell."

This very issue has caused friction between the Postal Service and the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee -- a body established in 1957 to evaluate and recommend to the USPS what should be chosen for stamps.

The tension undoubtedly escalated when the Postal Service chose not to consult with this advisory committee before approving the new Harry Potter stamp collection.

But here's the thing: It's not an either/or scenario. Stamps bearing images of iconic America, like national parks and national heroes, will always have their audience. And pop culture stamps certainly have their legion of fans. Keep in mind that the stamp featuring Elvis Presley is the top seller of all time with over 700 million sold.

So I say it's time for the Postal Service to roll out stamps that will make money. I don't care if it's Miley Cyrus swinging on a wrecking ball, an angry Donald Trump or Honey Boo Boo wearing a tiara. These are all preferable to the Postal Service incurring more debt and slashing services to the point where it ends up having to lay off so many postal workers that it's stuck delivering mail via carrier pigeon.

@highlight

Some stamp collectors are upset over a new line of Harry Potter stamps

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Keep in mind that the Postal Service is in a financial mess

@highlight

He says popular stamps are preferable to higher deficits or drastic cuts in services

@highlight

Obeidallah: The Postal Service should roll out some stamps that can make money(CNN) -- In the winter of 2011, Chris, a 23-year old professional poker player, was confident that his candidate, President Barack Obama, would keep control of the White House in November of 2012.

But instead of ordering a few lawn signs or volunteering to go door-to-door for the campaign, he put his money where his mouth was.

Chris, who asked that his last name not be used out of legal concerns, bet a Maryland bookie $50,000 that Obama would beat the field, at that time the entire cohort of Republicans slugging it out in the primary.

"I was very confident," said Chris, a recent graduate of George Washington University. "No outcome is certain, but this guy was offering me 50-50 and I didn't understand how I can turn this down. The president, at the very least, was a favorite."

It is illegal to vote on the election in the United States -- the Maryland Attorney General's office told CNN that instances of betting on an election are rare -- but that doesn't mean betting on an election elsewhere is rare.

Just look across the Atlantic, where most betting institutions in the United Kingdom and Ireland have odds on all things presidential.

By the numbers: Presidential predictions

International odds makers are giving the upper hand to Obama. Most UK bookmakers this week, aside from a few outliers, give Obama 1 to 4 odds (if you bet $1 and win, you get $1.25 back), while Romney is getting 11 to 4 odds (for every $4 you bet, you get $11 back).

Paddy Power, a popular Irish bookmaker, is one such company. They not only offer head-to-head betting opportunities, but they also allow bettors to wager on state-by-state winners, Electoral College numbers and even the odds that Romney and Obama will tie in the Electoral College (only 25/1 at time of publishing).

By the way, there are also odds on who would win the 2016 presidential election. Mitt Romney is the favorite, Paul Ryan, Romney's running mate, is a close second and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is just behind Ryan. Donald Trump, the Republican business magnate, is getting 100 to 1 odds.

Obama getting better odds
Paddy Power, like most international bookmakers, has Obama as the favorite and Romney as the underdog in Tuesday's election.

In the last few days, possibly looking to take advantage of the odds, a sizable amount of money has been coming in for Romney, according to FÃ©ilim Mac An Iomaire, a spokesperson for Paddy Power.

"It is over a million pounds sterling (about $1.6 million) at this stage," Iomaire says of the amount of money that has been bet so far. Everyday, he says, bets of over 10,000 pounds -- or about $16,000 -- have become normal.

In order to set the odds, Iomarie says a group of bookies in Ireland comb through much of the same data that American political watchers read.

"All the latest polls will be looked at. We also do a line in all the states -- so we watch the regional polls very closely," Iomarie said. "Ninety percent of it going in is what the polls are saying."

My Take: I've got my money on the Church of Nate Silver

Intrade is another popular Irish site that allows members to bet on the outcomes of non-sports-related events. Members buy "contracts" that stipulate what they are worth if whatever outcomes happens. For example, at time of publishing, buying one share of "Barack Obama to be re-elected President in 2012" would cost $6.65. By contrast, the same bets for Romney cost $3.38.

According to Intrade, Obama has a 66.3% chance of winning the election. Romney has a 33.9% chance.

Intrade has become a website the political reporters and pundits follow regularly. When Obama's chance of winning on Intrade began to slip, many Republicans took to Twitter to tout the downslide.

Like most betting sites, Intrade does not allow U.S. credit or debit cards to be used on the site -- a way to basically prohibit Americans from betting on the election.

Brit: Americans are too 'emotional'
Back at Paddy Power, Iomaire jokes that Americans may not be the best people to bet on their own election.

"I know from speaking to American friends, they tend to have a bit more of an emotional opinion about it," Iomaire said with a laugh. "When we are looking at it on our end, we are setting it very much based on polls and the money that is coming in."

The people betting, like Chris, see it differently, though.

"Given how little is known by non-political scientists about how elections are determined, almost no one has a good idea about the likelihood about one person winning or not," Chris said. When you look at election forecasting models that "rely on more economic data and less on polls, the percentage likelihood exceeds the odds that any sports book is giving."

Biden does Letterman's Top 10

One blog the avid bettor reads, he says, is The Monkey Cage, a blog about political science and politics. John Sides, a contributor to the blog and a professor at George Washington University, says he never saw himself as a prognosticator. "I never thought of myself as giving a lot of sage advice that then you could make wagers on," Sides says.

But in saying that, he acknowledges that understanding the data and the historical trend of economic data can lead to "educated guessing."

"To the large extent, the inclination of academics is to look at systematic patterns in the past and derive what is going to happen in the future," Sides said. "Maybe the information is useful, but then again, that perspective opens up the risk that this time is different.

"It would be easy money if the election weren't close. But it is a very close election," he said.

Bettors like Chris remain strident, though.

"It is a market that is malformed," Chris said. "Whenever there is a malformed market and you know what you are doing, it is a reasonably good place to put your money.

@highlight

International sites take wagers on who will win the election

@highlight

It is illegal, however, to make such bets in the U.S.

@highlight

Obama is getting better odds than Romney right nowLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- With foreclosures and bankruptcy affecting millions of homeowners, CNN's Larry King on Tuesday talked to several experts in the real estate industry to get advice on handling the mortgage meltdown.

Barbara Corcoran says homeowners have ways of getting mortgage companies to pay attention to them.

His panel on "Larry King Live" was made up of real estate expert Barbara Corcoran, correspondent Michael Corbett, developer Jorge Perez, real estate magnate Donald Trump and financial expert Robert Kiyosaki.

Larry King: Is this a good time to sell a house?

Barbara Corcoran: Of course it's not a good time to sell a house. The question is, if you must sell a house, how do you unload it, considering the enormous competition that's out there?  Watch the panelists respond to questions »

King: Suppose you have to sell.

Corcoran: There's one way you can always sell a house in any old market. You can intentionally under-price it. If you go out to your own marketplace and intentionally under-price your home 20 percent to 25 percent less than you think it's worth, or that a credible appraiser tells you it's worth, you will sell that house within the week. There's no such a thing as an unsellable house. It's always a question of numbers.

King: What's the biggest mistake people facing foreclosure make?

Michael Corbett: The biggest mistake right now is when you get that default notice, you ignore it. People think that if they just ignore it, it will buy them more time. It's absolutely the opposite. The first thing they should do when they get those notices is contact either the lender or go to HUD [the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development]. Get a certified counselor. There's free counseling out there for people, because if you just go ahead and ignore these notices, they automatically trigger legal action. And that moves it faster. If you want to buy some time, call the lender, call a counselor.

King: Let's take a call from Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

Caller: I have a loan with Countrywide, and they will not refinance our interest-only loan, because they say our debt-to-income ratio is too high, and their workout department won't even look at us because we've never been behind on our mortgage and we're not currently behind. It's going to reset in August. What can we do?

Corbett: Unfortunately, a lot of the mortgage companies and the banks don't want to talk to you. It's very sad, until you're actually in arrears. Their loss mitigation or their workout department, they don't want to help you until you're two months or three months in debt.

King: Barbara has a solution.

Corcoran: I have a solution, and it's a fall-back solution, but it sure gets attention. You can make an appointment, or not make an appointment, go over there with the deed to your property and the keys to your front door and say, OK, I've had it. Here's my deed, here's my keys, and you'll get attention.

One other thing, you should always put your requests by certified mail. By law, the banks don't have to answer phone calls. But by law, they have to answer certified mail, and a lot of people don't use it.

King: We have an e-mail question from S.O.S. in California: "I got a condo in April of 2005 for $500,000. Now it's only worth about $400,000. Could I refinance it to get a better interest rate, or should I try to negotiate with the mortgage company to adjust the payment?"

Jorge Perez: I would definitely negotiate with the mortgage company. Lenders are having tremendous problems right now. They have a huge amount of REOs, real estate-owned properties, and they do not want your house or condominium.

We are advising all the people that we know that have those problems to go talk to their lenders, and they will talk to their lenders.

I think one of the biggest problems, nevertheless, is that a lot of people borrowed on variable rate interests when they had mortgages at 1 and 2 percent that grew up over time. And their jobs have not gotten better, and now they're paying much higher interest rates than when they got their mortgages. And this is a big, big problem in real estate today

King: We have an e-mail question from Debbie in Orlando, Florida: "What's a family to do if they lose their home to foreclosure? How can they find a suitable place to live? Aren't they going to be rejected as renters on grounds of poor credit?"

Donald Trump: This is now the time to go out and try making a deal, try buying a house. The banks are there. It's already financed. You don't really need the money because it's already financed. They are already in. They are already wet. I don't recommend renting now. I recommend now is the time to buy. Buying is much better than renting.

King: Even if you've been foreclosed?

Trump: Absolutely. You can make deals. So many people are being foreclosed. Millions and millions of people. It's no longer got that horrible stigma. This is the time to go out and make a deal. The money has already been put in. It's not like they are putting in new money. The money has already been put in. They own a house. They want somebody to live in that house.

King: What's your advice, Robert?

Robert Kiyosaki: Back in the '80s, I got my butt kicked in the market. That's when interest rates were about 18 percent to 20 percent and I was trying to make deals at 18 percent to 20 percent. And it really taught me a good lesson that I had to get smarter. So when I got pounded in the late '70s and early '80s, I at that point said I better get smarter, and today, I have made millions of dollars because of a bad experience.

But if you're not -- if you don't learn from the experience and you think the government is going to bail you out, then you've wasted a big opportunity to learn something.

@highlight

Barbara Corcoran: Under-pricing is a way to sell a home

@highlight

Michael Corbett: Don't ignore mortgage default notices

@highlight

Jorge Perez, Donald Trump: Now's the time to negotiate, buy a house

@highlight

Robert Kiyosaki: Meltdown is time to learn to not rely on bailoutLos Angeles (CNN) -- Keya Morgan sometimes sleeps with Abraham Lincoln's pocket watch clutched in his hand or with Marilyn Monroe's dress next to him. It makes for amazing dreams, he says.

It also puts Morgan -- owner of a vast array of historical photos, documents and objects -- at the nexus of celebrity, conspiracy and collectibles.

He's friends with an unusual array of famous people, many of whom he met while gathering his artifacts and information.

Michael Jackson was among them. Marina Oswald still is.

The widow of the man accused of assassinating President John F. Kennedy says she's spent hours discussing history with Morgan, who owns the largest private collection of photos of JFK.

"Keya is a good kid. Let's put it that way," Oswald said. "He has a good heart, and he's compassionate and puts all his 150% in it."

Although she rarely gives interviews, Oswald felt strongly enough about her friendship with Morgan that she agreed to speak with CNN by phone from her Texas home.

"I am very pleased to know Keya," Oswald said.

The admiration is mutual.

"Marina Oswald is one of the most intelligent, amazing women I know," Morgan said, adding that he's "100% positive" her husband, Lee Harvey Oswald, did not mastermind Kennedy's death.

In addition to being a collector, Morgan is a historian and filmmaker -- and will become an author in the spring when his book, "Marilyn Monroe: Murder on Fifth Helena Drive," is scheduled to be published.

He interviewed more than 300 people during a decade of research, including FBI agents, the coroner who conducted Monroe's autopsy, the Los Angeles police detectives who investigated her death and two of Monroe's three husbands.

Morgan claims that his book will prove the movie star was murdered.

"I feel so fortunate to be able to live alongside of history," Morgan said. "History is like a drug to me. I get a total high."

Morgan's addiction, which began at New York estate sales at age 8, soon grew into a business.

He was a teenager operating a collectibles shop in Manhattan in the mid-1990s when he met a new client and friend.

"A guy with a mask and a hood walks into my shop," Morgan said. "It scared the living daylights out of me. I knew I was going to be robbed."

A customer who was selling gold coins to Morgan fled in fright, but when the masked man spoke, Morgan realized it was Michael Jackson.

The pop icon, a well-known buyer of historical artifacts, was searching for prints of Elvis Presley and Marilyn Monroe, Morgan said.

Jackson returned several times to the shop he called "a little Smithsonian on 25th Street," Morgan said.

Jackson called Morgan a "time traveler" because of his passion for artifacts, ranging from his statuette from King Tut's tomb to Muhammad Ali's personal writings.

When Morgan gave Jackson a ring that once belonged to Monroe, Jackson returned the favor by teaching him his trademark dance step.

"He actually taught me the Moonwalk in my shop," Morgan said, adding that he can still do the move.

Morgan later became close friends with real moonwalker Buzz Aldrin, the second man to step onto the lunar surface.

"I always pride myself in going straight to the source," he said.

Another celebrity friend is Donald Trump Jr., the son of the real estate mogul and "Apprentice" host.

"Keya is one of these guys who was perhaps born 100 years too late," Trump said. "He's a timeless character living in a modern world."

One aspect of Morgan's personality that helps him make and keep celebrity friends is he is "that rare friend who isn't the clingy, needy friend," Trump said.

Now in his 30s -- he won't reveal his exact age -- Morgan owns Queen Victoria's family album, a large collection of Adolf Hitler photos and the largest private collection of photos of Abraham Lincoln.

His extensive photography collection also includes images of Fredrick Douglass and several Civil War generals, as well as rare photos of slaves.

Morgan says the relationships he develops while researching historical photos pays off, such as when Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's great-great-grandson told him about an image in a family-owned album that showed Lincoln in front of the White House weeks before he was assassinated.

Unlike most other Lincoln images, Morgan said, this was an unstaged photo captured after the photographer convinced a young Tad Lincoln to ask his father to step outside.

Morgan calls it "the first act of paparazzi photography."

President Obama was a U.S. senator from Illinois in 2005 when he called Morgan to ask for permission to use one of his photos of Lincoln -- made just two months before his death -- for a column for Time magazine titled, "What I See in Lincoln's Eyes."

"On trying days, the portrait, a reproduction of which hangs in my office, soothes me; it always asks me questions," Obama wrote.

At Obama's suggestion, Morgan created a website, LincolnImages.com, to make his catalog of historical photos available to the public for licensing, he said.

Until Morgan disappeared into a Los Angeles condo this year to finish the last chapters of his book on Monroe, he could be found at the Beverly Hills Hotel Polo Lounge or West Hollywood's Chateau Marmont, socializing with an impressive list of celebrity friends.

Morgan says they're often his biggest customers, too.

"Historical people appreciate history even more than anybody," Morgan said.

Morgan was lunching at the Polo Lounge with veteran screenwriter David Seidler just days before he won an Oscar for "The King's Speech."

Morgan gave Seidler an original photograph of King George VI sitting with President Franklin Roosevelt in June 1939.

The photo, part of a collection of Queen Victoria's family photos Morgan purchased at auction, was taken three months before the king delivered the dramatic radio address featured in Seidler's screenplay.

When Mariah Carey paid $662,000 for Monroe's childhood piano, Morgan said, he gave the singer a rare photo of Monroe sitting at the keyboard.

Morgan's longtime obsession with Monroe took an eerie twist when he moved into his west L.A. condo to write. He didn't realize fate had put him two blocks from her grave.

"When my doorman told me Marilyn was around the corner, I was totally shocked," he said. Morgan visited Monroe's grave almost every morning while he wrote to "say a prayer for strength to do justice to her."

"Marilyn Monroe is the most misunderstood character in history," he said. "She is as American as apple pie, and she was sweeter than honey."

One chapter in his book, titled "Dumb Blonde Genius," will prove that "she was a prodigy, not a dumb blonde," Morgan said.

"Marilyn Monroe went from being the most poor, unwanted girl tossed from all these orphanages to the most desired sex goddess, movie goddess, highest-earning actress in the world when she died in 1962," he said.

"She did that all by herself. She created this magical character."

Morgan's knowledge of Monroe's life is enhanced by his friendships with two of her husbands, James Dougherty and Arthur Miller. He never knew husband Joe DiMaggio, but he bought much of the Yankees slugger's estate, giving Morgan access to the couple's personal letters.

After the book is published, Morgan says, he will concentrate on a film "to prove once and for all that she was murdered."

A key part of Morgan's book focuses on Monroe's relationship with Kennedy and his brother Robert F. Kennedy. Morgan owns the only known photo of the three together, taken in May 1962 after the actress' famous "Happy Birthday" serenade to the president.

Morgan boasts the largest private collection of JFK photos, thanks in large part to his recent purchase of the archives of former White House photographer Cecil Stoughton. Most of the 20,000 images have never been seen beyond the day Stoughton printed them in his darkroom five decades ago.

While Morgan's business is to license or sell from his historical collections, much of what he owns is not for sale. Instead, he keeps them for personal enjoyment, such as his "time traveling" dreams.

"I take a historical object, like a watch that belonged to Lincoln, and I sleep with it," Morgan said. "I pray to God and to Lincoln to sort of guide me. And when I sleep, I have a dream about it. Now, it could either be my subconscious that's doing that, or it could be my soul traveling time."

During one dream experienced while holding Lincoln's watch, Morgan said, he found himself standing among Lincoln Secretary of War Edwin Stanton, Secretary of State William Seward and the president's family.

"I remember Mary Lincoln, how nasty she was, and she was full of herself," Morgan said. "I remember the kids. I remember his son Willie was the cutest kid."

He's dreamed with Monroe's watch, her dress and even a piece of her dog's toy.

"I had one dream, actually, in which she was towards the end of her life, and she had gotten her contract for $1 million, and she was so extremely happy," he said.

He went shopping with Monroe in another dream.

One night, Morgan counted eight trips through time using a variety of artifacts.

After more than two decades of collecting, he can choose from King Tut's 3,000-year-old "servant of the hereafter" ushabti statuette, a 2,200-year-old Alexander the Great coin, 24-karat earrings from Cleopatra's time, Thomas Edison's pen, Marlon Brando's wristwatch or a wide array of artifacts from all 44 U.S. presidents.

@highlight

Keya Morgan collects historical artifacts from celebs

@highlight

His work has helped him develop relationships with the stars

@highlight

Morgan says he "time travels" using some of the items he hasA new CNN poll finds that about half of Republicans sympathize with the tea party movement. The other half either remain aloof or (5%) even express hostility.

That second group of Republicans has received remarkably little media attention this cycle. Yet their man -- Mitt Romney -- has held steady in first or second place for the past three years. Meanwhile tea party Republicans have bounced from Sarah Palin to Donald Trump to Michele Bachmann to Rick Perry to (now) Herman Cain, transfixing the media every time they lose faith in one messiah and search for another.

Yet sooner or later, the tea party Republicans must converge on a single choice. When they do, they will present the non-tea party Republicans with a troubling menu of possibilities.

Possibility 1: Romney is nominated, Romney is elected.

From the point of view of non-tea party Republicans, this is the ideal outcome of the 2012 election. Yet it is also an outcome that looks worryingly out of reach. As we enter the final 12 months of the election countdown, Romney still cannot rise above 30% support in his own party. Worse, while it's easy to imagine (say) Herman Cain's voters shifting to Rick Perry or vice versa, it is very hard to imagine where Mitt Romney will find the additional Republican votes he needs.

Possibility 2:  Romney is nominated, Romney loses.

For non-tea party Republicans, this second outcome opens all kinds of ugly, ominous possibilities. If candidate Romney loses, tea party Republicans will claim that the GOP lost because it failed to nominate a "true conservative." That claim may fly in the face of political math (how would a more extreme candidate win more votes?), but it will pack a lot of emotional punch. Intense partisans are always ready to believe that the way to win is to be more intense and more partisan. Back-to-back losses under John McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012 will open the way to an ultra-conservative nominee in 2016 -- and a true party debacle.

Possibility 3: A tea party Republican is nominated and loses.

From the point of view of a non-tea party Republican, the third possibility is the most tragic waste. A winnable election will be thrown away on an ideological adventure. Yet within the disaster might lurk a silver lining. At least the GOP will get the ideological adventure out of its system. For three years, Republican activists have lived in a fantasy world in which fringe characters like Sarah Palin and Herman Cain somehow "speak for the common sense of the common people." It seems incredible that anybody could believe such a thing. It seems crazy that anyone would actually need a presidential election to disabuse them of such notions. But as Benjamin Franklin said: "Experience is a hard teacher, but fools will have no other."

Possibility 4: A tea party Republican is nominated and wins.

This possibility has to be reckoned the most unlikely. But it cannot be excluded as utterly impossible, on two conditions:

If the U.S. economy continues as weak and sick as it is today, and;

If tea party Republicans revert from the utterly unelectable Herman Cain to Rick Perry, who as governor of Texas possesses at least the paper qualifications for the presidency.

Then - who knows? - anything might happen.

Perry would be a much weaker candidate than Romney, but if the voters are determined to fire the incumbent, then even a weak challenger can prevail. (See Barack Hussein Obama, 2008 candidacy of.)

In which case, not only tea party Republicans but all Republicans and all Americans will confront the problem: what next?

The tea party stands for a series of propositions that don't meet the reality test: that deficits matter more than jobs, that cutting deficits and tightening credit will accelerate economic growth, that high taxes and over-regulation are the most important reasons that growth has not revived, and that America still offers the world's best opportunity for the poor to rise. Tea party plans call for a radical shift in the burden of taxation from the rich to the poor -- and promise big reductions in government spending without touching any of the benefits of current retirees.

If put into practice, the tea party platform is a formula for political and economic crisis.

Fortunately, it remains a long-shot outcome. If you're betting the odds, you want to put your money on possibility three. As for possibility one -- that's just good government. And nobody seems to get much excited about that these days.

@highlight

David Frum: Non-tea party Republicans hope Romney will be the nominee and win election

@highlight

He says Romney seems stuck in the polls and can't seem to win tea party voters' support

@highlight

If Romney is nominated and loses, tea party will push party further right

@highlight

Frum: Tea party stands for a series of ideas that don't meet the reality testNational Harbor, Maryland (CNN) -- It would be a mistake to read too much into the speeches, breakout sessions and late-night parties that took place at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference.

Thousands of right-leaning activists made the pilgrimage here this year, to a convention hall outside the nation's capital. They were greeted, as they are every year, by a bevy of candidates, bloggers, political operatives and more than a few hucksters out to make a buck.

But it's tough to glean any sweeping insight into the state of the conservative movement just by hanging out at CPAC for a few days and talking to its most rock-ribbed and outspoken partisans.

And yet: The confluence of big name Republican speakers -- many of them potential White House contenders -- makes the three-day event impossible to ignore.

CPAC crowd chants, 'Run, Sarah, run!'

Here are five big takeaways from CPAC 2014:

1. This is Rand's house: Rand Paul's blowout win in the presidential straw poll Saturday -- he won more than a third of the vote, easily besting second-place finisher Ted Cruz -- cemented his place as the King of CPAC.

Rand Paul convincingly wins CPAC straw poll

Paul's address here on Friday, unapologetically heavy with libertarian sentiment, was far and away the best-received speech of the weekend. The room was packed and Paul, wearing jeans, was interrupted repeatedly by standing ovations. After his appearance, he joined his wife, Kelley, across the street from the convention center at a packed restaurant for an open bar happy hour with fired-up supporters.

Does his showing mean that Paul will be the GOP nominee in 2016? No. But it does affirm what reporters here had been saying all week: that CPAC is now, without question, his turf.

CPAC crowd treats Paul like a rock star

The face of CPAC has become younger in recent years -- it feels a little like spring break for College Republicans -- and more libertarian in the process. Paul also won the straw poll in 2013, and his father, Ron Paul, won in 2010 and 2011. The younger Paul was aided in his win this year by Young Americans for Liberty, which boasted that it recruited almost 500 activists to come to the event and cast ballots. Almost half of the straw poll vote came from 18- to 25-year-olds.

Paul's showing this weekend will only add to the perception that he's a top-tier Republican presidential contender who should be taken much more seriously than his father if he runs (and no one thinks he isn't running). The downside? The dominant straw poll raises expectations for his performance next year, when the GOP race for the White House will be in full swing.

2. Obama still conservative enemy No. 1: The national political conversation is already drifting toward 2016. But at CPAC, President Barack Obama was anything but a lame duck.

Obama foreign policy target of opportunity at CPAC

Speaker after speaker listed Obama's unforgivable sins: taxes, spending, Obamacare, the IRS scandal, NSA surveillance, and on and on.

Strikingly, Hillary Clinton -- the Democratic Party's apparent nominee-in-waiting for 2016 -- went mostly unmentioned until Friday afternoon, the conference's second day. Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee criticized the former secretary of state's handling of the 2012 attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya.

Her name popped up twice more from the main stage on Saturday. Rep. Michele Bachmann said Clinton will face "tough questions" if she runs in 2016. Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich called Clinton a "prison guard" of the past.

But Obama was far and away the chief bogeyman of CPAC. Even as pundits scrutinize Clinton's every move in the context of the next presidential campaign, conservatives aren't yet ready to look beyond the man who still occupies the White House.

Perry: Time for a little rebellion

3. Pragmatists vs. purists: There's always a lot of chatter at CPAC about the various wings of the Republican Party that seem at odds with one another: the free market adherents, the national security hawks, the social conservatives. The growing influence of libertarianism has scrambled how the conservative movement sees itself. But political parties in this country have always been uneasy coalitions of various interests and ideologies. Squabbling is to be expected.

The biggest battle in the Republican Party is the one between its pragmatists and its purists.

There were hints this year that the pragmatists were gaining ground. In the Obama era, CPAC has earned a reputation for fire-breathing rhetoric and divisive commentary, but some of this year's biggest speeches had a softer edge. New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie led the charge in calling for party unity in pursuit of winning elections. He was well received.

Perry hoping for a second chance from voters

Paul has called on the party to reach out to minorities and has proposed policy ideas -- including sentencing reform and economic "freedom zones" for low-income areas -- to achieve that goal. In a session about libertarianism, one panelist said children would be better raised by gay couples than single parents. No one booed.

Even Utah Sen. Mike Lee, a tea party darling, urged the conservative faithful to be more open-minded. "We as conservatives have got to be far more engaged in finding converts than discarding heretics," Lee said on Thursday.

But the happy talk couldn't paper over the fact that conservative hard-liners, including several eyeing a 2016 presidential run, don't want conservative ideology to take a back seat to anything. And CPAC still booked a number of divisive and provocative speakers like Donald Trump and Bachmann.

Former Sen. Rick Santorum inveighed against win-at-all-costs Republicans -- a comment widely seen as a jab at Christie.

And Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas warned Republicans against compromise, painting former GOP presidential nominees Bob Dole, John McCain and Mitt Romney as moderate squishes who lost nationally because they veered from conservative principles. His words drew a stern rebuke from McCain -- and a rare statement from Dole telling Cruz to check his facts.

4. Christie's move to the right has begun: We didn't learn anything new about Christie from his Thursday speech.

But it was how he presented himself that mattered -- and the Christie who showed up at CPAC was a far cry from the Christie who ran for re-election in blue-leaning New Jersey last year, winning in resounding fashion.

Christie gets warm reception from gathering of the right

That Christie was all about bipartisan legislative compromise, post-Sandy healing, and outreach to voters who don't traditionally feel comfortable with the GOP. His invitation to last year's CPAC was lost in the mail. Christie didn't mind.

This year's Christie more resembled the tea party hero of 2009, when he first won the governorship, and 2010, when he traveled the country in rock star fashion campaigning for GOP candidates. Christie reminded the crowd of his opposition to abortion, calling himself "proudly pro-life." He bashed unions and the media. He praised the Koch brothers.

His speech should put to rest any doubts about his willingness to pivot to the right as he mounts a Republican presidential bid, even as he continues to be dogged by multiple controversies and investigations back home.

Christie and his team took his CPAC showing seriously. His top political advisers made the trip with him -- and they presumably left happy. Christie placed fourth in the CPAC straw poll, a finish that beat expectations and made for a nice talking point as he begins the work of repairing his tarnished relationship with conservatives.

5. What's wrong with CPAC? The question popped up again and again in conversations with veteran conference-goers: What's wrong with CPAC this year? The stakes at this year's event felt low -- and so did the energy.

There were, of course, the usual hordes of earnest, lanyard-wearing 20-somethings brimming with youthful enthusiasm. But the main ballroom at the Gaylord Convention Center in suburban Maryland was rarely full. Something felt off.

CPAC 'Las Vegas' for young conservatives

Maybe it's because the conference is at its most exciting during presidential campaign years, when GOP candidates are jostling for attention from the conservative base.

Cruz's comments draw fire from Dole, McCain

Or maybe it's because the tea party activists who arrived here in 2009 and 2010 as conquering insurgents are now just the regular cast of characters and movement hangers-on who show up every year, hawking their wares, snapping pictures with conservative celebrities, recording their podcasts and delivering a familiar litany of warmed-over attacks on Obama.

Whatever the reason, there were still plenty of journalists on hand to drink it all in. Thanks to CPAC's proximity to Washington, there always are. But the diplomatic standoff in Ukraine snuffed out the event's usual ability to command the Beltway news cycle. And when Democrats tried to make hay of some of the wackier comments made by speakers, few reporters seemed to care.

The headlines instead focused on the potential 2016 candidates who came here road-testing their messages. But aside from Paul, with his happy hour for young activists, the White House wannabes weren't doing much behind-the-scenes to court activists.

"This year is more subdued and doesn't have the kind of vibrant atmosphere of past confabs -- a result of conservatives being lost in the political wilderness for six years without a unifying conservative leader," said Dennis Lennox, a GOP activist and operative from Michigan who helped Mitt Romney line up support for the CPAC presidential straw polls in 2007 and 2008.

"It doesn't help that there is not a concerted effort by a likely presidential candidate, especially a dark horse who needs a boost in their profile among the foot soldiers who would be critical to carrying their candidacy in a primary that will be fully under way a year from now," he added.

@highlight

Confluence of big-name Republican speakers makes CPAC impossible to ignore

@highlight

Rand Paul's straw poll win raises profile and expectations

@highlight

Even as Clinton is scrutinized as 2016 contender, Obama still CPAC's top bogeymanLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- With foreclosures and bankruptcy affecting millions of homeowners, CNN's Larry King on Tuesday talked to several experts in the real estate industry to get advice on handling the mortgage meltdown.

Barbara Corcoran says homeowners have ways of getting mortgage companies to pay attention to them.

His panel on "Larry King Live" was made up of real estate expert Barbara Corcoran, correspondent Michael Corbett, developer Jorge Perez, real estate magnate Donald Trump and financial expert Robert Kiyosaki.

Larry King: Is this a good time to sell a house?

Barbara Corcoran: Of course it's not a good time to sell a house. The question is, if you must sell a house, how do you unload it, considering the enormous competition that's out there?  Watch the panelists respond to questions »

King: Suppose you have to sell.

Corcoran: There's one way you can always sell a house in any old market. You can intentionally under-price it. If you go out to your own marketplace and intentionally under-price your home 20 percent to 25 percent less than you think it's worth, or that a credible appraiser tells you it's worth, you will sell that house within the week. There's no such a thing as an unsellable house. It's always a question of numbers.

King: What's the biggest mistake people facing foreclosure make?

Michael Corbett: The biggest mistake right now is when you get that default notice, you ignore it. People think that if they just ignore it, it will buy them more time. It's absolutely the opposite. The first thing they should do when they get those notices is contact either the lender or go to HUD [the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development]. Get a certified counselor. There's free counseling out there for people, because if you just go ahead and ignore these notices, they automatically trigger legal action. And that moves it faster. If you want to buy some time, call the lender, call a counselor.

King: Let's take a call from Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

Caller: I have a loan with Countrywide, and they will not refinance our interest-only loan, because they say our debt-to-income ratio is too high, and their workout department won't even look at us because we've never been behind on our mortgage and we're not currently behind. It's going to reset in August. What can we do?

Corbett: Unfortunately, a lot of the mortgage companies and the banks don't want to talk to you. It's very sad, until you're actually in arrears. Their loss mitigation or their workout department, they don't want to help you until you're two months or three months in debt.

King: Barbara has a solution.

Corcoran: I have a solution, and it's a fall-back solution, but it sure gets attention. You can make an appointment, or not make an appointment, go over there with the deed to your property and the keys to your front door and say, OK, I've had it. Here's my deed, here's my keys, and you'll get attention.

One other thing, you should always put your requests by certified mail. By law, the banks don't have to answer phone calls. But by law, they have to answer certified mail, and a lot of people don't use it.

King: We have an e-mail question from S.O.S. in California: "I got a condo in April of 2005 for $500,000. Now it's only worth about $400,000. Could I refinance it to get a better interest rate, or should I try to negotiate with the mortgage company to adjust the payment?"

Jorge Perez: I would definitely negotiate with the mortgage company. Lenders are having tremendous problems right now. They have a huge amount of REOs, real estate-owned properties, and they do not want your house or condominium.

We are advising all the people that we know that have those problems to go talk to their lenders, and they will talk to their lenders.

I think one of the biggest problems, nevertheless, is that a lot of people borrowed on variable rate interests when they had mortgages at 1 and 2 percent that grew up over time. And their jobs have not gotten better, and now they're paying much higher interest rates than when they got their mortgages. And this is a big, big problem in real estate today

King: We have an e-mail question from Debbie in Orlando, Florida: "What's a family to do if they lose their home to foreclosure? How can they find a suitable place to live? Aren't they going to be rejected as renters on grounds of poor credit?"

Donald Trump: This is now the time to go out and try making a deal, try buying a house. The banks are there. It's already financed. You don't really need the money because it's already financed. They are already in. They are already wet. I don't recommend renting now. I recommend now is the time to buy. Buying is much better than renting.

King: Even if you've been foreclosed?

Trump: Absolutely. You can make deals. So many people are being foreclosed. Millions and millions of people. It's no longer got that horrible stigma. This is the time to go out and make a deal. The money has already been put in. It's not like they are putting in new money. The money has already been put in. They own a house. They want somebody to live in that house.

King: What's your advice, Robert?

Robert Kiyosaki: Back in the '80s, I got my butt kicked in the market. That's when interest rates were about 18 percent to 20 percent and I was trying to make deals at 18 percent to 20 percent. And it really taught me a good lesson that I had to get smarter. So when I got pounded in the late '70s and early '80s, I at that point said I better get smarter, and today, I have made millions of dollars because of a bad experience.

But if you're not -- if you don't learn from the experience and you think the government is going to bail you out, then you've wasted a big opportunity to learn something.

@highlight

Barbara Corcoran: Under-pricing is a way to sell a home

@highlight

Michael Corbett: Don't ignore mortgage default notices

@highlight

Jorge Perez, Donald Trump: Now's the time to negotiate, buy a house

@highlight

Robert Kiyosaki: Meltdown is time to learn to not rely on bailoutLos Angeles (CNN) -- Gloria Allred's demand that a transgender contestant be allowed to compete in the Miss Canada Universe pageant was trumped Tuesday when pageant owner Donald Trump agreed with her.

It was a public relations battle featuring two well-known masters of the media, a beauty queen and a controversial topic.

On the East Coast was Trump, whose fortune and brand is boosted by his ability to navigate storms of controversy.

On the West Coast was Allred, legendary for her ability to draw hordes of cameras to her Beverly Hills law office to capture her outrage over alleged injustices done to her clients.

The client is Jenna Talackova, a 23-year-old, 6-foot-1-inch tall blond Canadian, who underwent sexual reassignment surgery four years ago.

Talackova won a regional beauty crown qualifying her for Canada's national title, but she was then told the May 19 Miss Canada Universe pageant in Toronto was only open to "naturally born females."

"I am a woman," Talackova said in a prepared statement she read to reporters in Allred's conference room Tuesday. "I was devastated and I felt that excluding me for the reason that they gave was unjust."

Allred's statement attacked Trump for questioning Talackova's sexuality.

"She did not ask Mr. Trump to prove that he is a naturally born man or to see photos of his birth to view his anatomy to prove that he was male," Allred said.

How she became a female is not important, she said.

"The Miss Universe competition is designed to find the one person in the world whose human qualities make them worthy of the Miss Universe crown and title," Allred said. "Jenna is beautiful in every way. Her life story will undoubtedly inspire people throughout the world."

Talackova, in a 2010 interview, said she knew she was a girl at age 4. She said she started hormone therapy at age 14 and underwent sexual reassignment surgery at 19.

Trump, warned of Allred's attack when the lawyer alerted reporters Monday afternoon that she would hold the news conference, shifted his pageant's position in an announcement Monday night.

Talackova could compete provided "she meets the legal gender recognition requirements of Canada, and the standards established by other international competitions," the Miss Universe Organization said.

Trump's maneuver didn't appear to temper Allred's outrage.

"The last-minute statement by Mr. Trump's representative put out late yesterday only confuses the issue," she said. "Instead of stating clearly that Jenna will be allowed to compete, Mr. Trump qualifies it by adding conditions that are ambiguous."

She asked Trump for "a clear answer -- not a wimpy, wishy-washy type of answer -- but something that we can take to the bank."

Allred didn't know it then, but Trump gave a clearer statement to CNN in New York two hours earlier.

"We went by the laws of Canada and the laws of the United States, and those laws say that she should be allowed to enter the pageant," Trump said. "So she will be entering the Miss Canada pageant."

When read Trump's new statement, Allred paused for several seconds and said "I stand by my statement. We want this rule eliminated."

"We want a clearer statement that this rule will be eliminated," Allred said. "Step up, say it loudly, say it clearly, this rule will never be in effect again for anyone."

Allred declined to have Talackova react to Trump's decision to let her compete.

"Sorry," Talackova whispered to the reporter, apologizing for her silence.

Allred would not say if her client still intended to compete in the pageant.

Controversy over pageant rules is not new for Trump, who owns and controls the Miss Universe franchise.

The media stir over Miss California Carrie Prejeans's same-sex marriage comments at Trump's Miss USA pageant three years ago raised the profile of that competition.

Prejean, in response to a question from a judge, declared her opposition to same-sex marriage.

Trump initially said Prejean could keep her Miss California title despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage. He eventually fired her for "contract violations," including missed public appearances.

Allred has affected more than beauty contests. She hosted several news conferences in 2010 to reveal evidence that Meg Whitman, who was then the Republican nominee for governor of California, employed an undocumented worker.

The October surprise hampered Whitman's campaign at a crucial time in her race against Jerry Brown, who won the election.

@highlight

"She should be allowed to enter the pageant," Miss Universe owner Donald Trump says

@highlight

Contestant's lawyer: "We want this rule eliminated"

@highlight

"I am a woman," contestant Jenna Talackova says

@highlight

Pageant officials previously disqualifed transgender woman from Miss Canada Universe(CNN) -- Scotland's first minister Alex Salmond has warned American billionaire Donald Trump against interfering in government matters ahead of his controversial golf course opening

The Trump International Golf Links, which the tycoon hopes will become the world's best course, is due to open in Aberdeenshire on July 10, but plans for an adjoining hotel have been shelved due to a row over the development of a nearby offshore wind farm.

Trump claims he was misled by Salmond over the American's $1 billion project and has threatened to sue the Scottish government if the wind farm development is not abandoned.

But Salmond, who has welcomed the golf course's construction, told Trump not to interfere in Scotland's energy policy.

Who will golf's run of new major winners

"Donald Trump is building a fantastic golf course in Scotland that I very much support and I've been a great supporter of it," Salmond told CNN at the TED Global conference in the Scottish capital of Edinburgh.

"Unfortunately, recently, he has tried to tell the Scottish Government how to run our energy policy.

"So, I suppose the message I have to say is, yes to great golf courses, we have the greatest golf courses in the world in Scotland and one more won't do any harm, but let the democratically elected government of Scotland decide its own energy policy."

In April, Trump appeared in the Scottish parliament to express his opposition to the North Sea wind farm.

Salmond has questioned the strategy of Trump, who will open his new course with a ceremony including local golf stars such as Colin Montgomerie and Paul Lawrie, to potentially pursue legal action against the Scottish government.

"We are a free society in Scotland, people are free to do as they choose," he said.

"The track record of taking legal action against a democratically elected government, pursuing the policy on which it was elected, in the Scottish courts would not be a propitious one. But nonetheless people are free to do what they wish."

Designed by leading golf architec Martin Hawtree, the Menie course has been built on a site of special scientific interest after the Scottish government overruled Aberdeenshire council's decision to reject the American's project, arguing the economic benefits outweighed environmental concerns.

The course has been talked up as future British Open venue, while a bid for the 2022 Ryder Cup is also a possibility.

@highlight

Donald Trumps controversial golf course will open in Scotland next month

@highlight

Plans for an adjoining hotel have been shelved in a row over an offshore wind farm

@highlight

Trump has threatened to sue the Scottish government if the wind farm is not scrapped

@highlight

Scottish first minister Alex Salmond tells Trump to stay out of government mattersLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Miss California USA pageant officials appear close to announcing if they will strip Carrie Prejean of her crown because of her lingerie photos and same-sex marriage statements.

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean may lose her crown because of some semi-nude photos she appeared in.

The pageant's first runner-up, Tami Farrell, who would assume the Miss California USA title if Prejean is disqualified, will be at a Beverly Hills news conference Monday to "address many issues surrounding Miss California USA," said pageant spokesman Ron Neal.

The controversy began last month when Prejean, 21, declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question on the national pageant stage. She finished as first runner-up to Miss USA.

Calls for her dethronement took on renewed energy this week when at least two photos of Prejean from a lingerie modeling session were published online, which Neal said violated the contract she signed to be in the pageant.

In a statement given to CNN on Tuesday, Prejean said the photos were being used in a "vicious and mean-spirited" effort to silence her for "defending traditional marriage." She vowed to "continue to support and defend marriage as the honorable institution it is."

The presence of Farrell on the list of those expected to be at the announcement -- and the absence of Prejean -- may suggest officials already have decided to replace her.

Shanna Moakler, co-executive director of the state pageant, met with Farrell this week to discuss the possibility of her taking over as Miss California USA, Neal said.

Ironically, Moakler -- who was the 1995 Miss USA -- became a Playboy centerfold model. As a top official with the Miss California USA organization, she plays a key role in deciding if the lingerie photos of Prejean are too racy for a beauty queen.

State pageant officials met this week with lawyers and representatives of Donald Trump, who owns the international competition, to consider whether they had grounds to take the crown away from Prejean, according to Neal.

"When you compete for Miss California, you're supposed to disclose whether you posed for nude or semi-nude photos, because it's grounds for disqualification," Neal said.  Watch reaction to racy photos »

CNN obtained a copy of the pageant contract Prejean signed last year, in which she agreed that the discovery of semi-nude photos could mean disqualification.

The two photos show Prejean -- who said she was 17 at the time -- wearing pink panties and no top. She is turned away from the camera, with an arm hiding most of her breast.

It was unclear whether pageant officials would consider them semi-nude photos.

During the pageant, contestants must parade across the stage wearing a bikini that arguably shows more skin than the photos reveal.

Prejean defended the photos, which she said were taken when she was a teenager aspiring to be a professional model.

"I am a Christian, and I am a model," she said. "Models pose for pictures, including lingerie and swimwear photos."

She said the photos "have been released surreptitiously to a tabloid Web site that openly mocks me for my Christian faith."

"I am not perfect, and I will never claim to be," she said. "But these attacks on me and others who speak in defense of traditional marriage are intolerant and offensive. While we may not agree on every issue, we should show respect for others' opinions and not try to silence them through vicious and mean-spirited attacks."

Her publicist, Melany Ethridge, confirmed a comment she gave to celebrity Web site TMZ in which she said Prejean was 17 when she posed for the photos, hoping they would land her a modeling job.

"In her naivete, an agent convinced her to pose for this photo to submit to a lingerie company, claiming they could make her the next Victoria's Secret model," Ethridge told TMZ. "She has since learned what a lie that was, and what a mistake it was to have the photo taken."

Prejean announced last week that she would star in a new $1.5 million ad campaign supporting what she called "opposite marriage" (marriage between a man and a woman) funded by the National Organization for Marriage.

"Marriage is good," Prejean said at a news conference announcing the ad campaign. "There is something special about unions of husband and wife. Unless we bring men and women together, children will not have mothers and fathers."

@highlight

Miss California USA pageant officials to have Monday news conference

@highlight

Scheduled to be on hand: Tami Farrell, first runner-up

@highlight

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean might be stripped of title due to issues

@highlight

Prejean initially in news for her response to question about same-sex marriage(CNN) -- $640 million dollars. We all know that number. It's the amount of last week's record Mega Millions jackpot. The media coverage reached a fever pitch as the prize rose to an awe-inspiring amount of money.

I haven't bought a lottery ticket in more than ten years but even I was sucked in hoping that I could win, despite knowing that I had a better chance of dating Angelina Jolie and Jennifer Aniston -- at the same time. But I felt luck was on my side since I had recently received e-mails informing me that I had won the national lottery of Nigeria despite my never having ever purchased a ticket.

In any event, for a few days, the lottery joined us all in a collective moment of dreaming "what if..." If you simply chose six numbers correctly, your next stop would be a mansion and being able to finally tell your boss what you truly thought of him or her.

The media bombarded us with stories examining the lottery from every angle: The odds, the ways to increase your chances, how people would spend their new fortune if they won, etc. Issues like the presidential election, the economy and the Rush Limbaugh controversy faded to the back burner.

In a way, the lottery had morphed into our own version of "The Hunger Games." It became our national obsession.

For those who haven't read "The Hunger Games," it's a popular book series which is now the No. 1 film in America. In the story, the nation is obsessed with the "Hunger Games" -- an annual event in which contestants are chosen to battle each other in the ultimate reality TV show. The rules of the game are simple: The winner is the one person who stays alive.

Our lottery, along with the "Hunger Games, " share similarities with another game of chance: The gladiator games of ancient Rome. Despite the stakes being obviously different in each of these three types of games, all are state-sponsored forms of entertainment. And all three not only amused the citizenry, but lead the public to ignore -- however briefly -- the more pressing issues of the day.

But our lottery is far more dangerous than either the "Hunger Games" or the gladiator matches. The lottery is not just a distraction -- it's an opiate for our masses. The lottery can numb people into believing that since you have a chance to become a millionaire by simply spending a dollar on a ticket, then you can achieve the American dream without putting in the real work.

This mentality can dissuade people from battling the true barriers to economic mobility that threatens our society, such as the inability of many to afford a college education due to soaring costs, the gender wage gap that allow men to earn more than women for the same job, and the income stagnation that has plagued the middle class.

Despite the astronomical odds of winning the lottery, it is sold to us by the states as a realistic way of attaining dreams of a better life. Indeed, the states play on these very aspirations with their lottery slogans, like Minnesota's "What kind of mega millionaire would you be?," North Dakota's "If you don't buy a ticket, how is lady luck going to find you?," or Washington's "Whose world could you change?"

Michigan at one time even used a class-conscious slogan in its lottery commercials: "The Rich. Join them." This tag line took into account the reality that the ones buying lottery tickets are not "the rich." You're never going to see Donald Trump, Warren Buffet or even Mitt Romney in line at a deli to buy lottery tickets.

In fact, at least 20% of Americans play the lottery on a regular basis. Those who have lower incomes buy a higher percentage of tickets. And when unemployment goes up, lottery sales generally increase as people hang their hopes on this game of chance.

The 43 states that sell lottery tickets happily take money from their residents knowing full well the income levels of those who are buying the tickets and the grotesquely miniscule odds of winning. I'm not saying that we should ban the lottery, but states should not just tout the pipe dream of winning the jackpot. They should also encourage their citizens to use their hard-earned money in a way that can make them into true "winners" -- by saving for an education or investing their salaries in things that can actually provide a return.

The lottery is more dangerous than the fictional "Hunger Games" or historical gladiator games. In those events, only a handful of people suffered. In contrast, the lottery hurts millions of Americans.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: The record Mega Millions jackpot became our national obsession last week

@highlight

Obeidallah: The lottery had morphed into our own version of "The Hunger Games"

@highlight

He says that lottery is not just a distraction but an opiate for the masses

@highlight

Obeidallah: States should encourage people to use their money in a smarter way(CNN) -- Reality TV may prove to be a golden ticket for Clay Aiken's congressional bid.

Nearly a decade ago, Americans were introduced to the adorable schoolteacher from North Carolina. Aiken wowed viewers and judges early in the second season auditions of "American Idol." No one expected such an incredible voice to come out of such an unassuming package. He came out of nowhere and stole the show.

His singing won him a golden ticket to Hollywood, but his resolve won him a unique place in the hearts of American viewers.

And that could be just the training he needed for his next career.

This week, Aiken once again presented himself as an unassuming candidate, this time jumping into North Carolina politics as a Democrat to challenge U.S. Rep. Renee Ellmers, a Republican, for her 2nd Congressional District seat.

As a former political appointee and reality TV show participant, I am intrigued by Aiken's foray into the world of politics. He and I got our start on TV right around the same time.

In all of my encounters with him over the last decade, I have found him to be kind, warm and authentic. I bet the voters in North Carolina will see the same thing.

A friend asked me if I thought Aiken's TV background would help or hurt him in his congressional race. That's easy. National TV has uniquely prepared Aiken for this adventure into politics. Here's why.

Aiken has had to convince millions to vote for him -- first via a toll-free 866 number and soon in a voting booth. He has had to deflect the barbs of critics -- I'm not sure who is worse, Simon Cowell or Sean Hannity. And he has had to learn how to win over the media -- first in Hollywood, now inside the Beltway.

Back in 2003 and 2004, reality TV was a lot different. Aiken and I both were parts of instantly successful franchises at the peak of their popularity. Each week, millions of viewers tuned in not only to watch but also to vote for their choices -- or vote off whom they didn't like.

This created a new entertainment democracy. Viewers were empowered to choose their favorites, and contestants had to campaign and compete for a spot on the show -- and for the hearts of America on an unofficial campaign trail.

Reality TV requires you to have thick skin. When you have to face harsh critics such as Cowell or Donald Trump weekly, you have no choice but to be tough.

But the toughest critic of all proved to be the American public. Aiken was subjected to intense, relentless scrutiny. He was forced to learn and apply leadership principles that were essential to his longevity and success, on screen and off. And even when he got knocked down, he had to get back up and fight again.

There are skills that we learned being on a reality show that may help Aiken win.

First, his message, which he has already tried and tested during his "American Idol" days, will get refined in the political arena.

He proudly shared Christian beliefs and his passion for young people with special needs, both traits that resonated with viewers -- and likely with North Carolina voters.

Secondly, his relationship with the media during "Idol" taught him how to deal with them in a smart, shrewd yet upfront and sincere way. The press can spot a fake a mile away.

On "American Idol," he quickly learned to forge relationships with the media to connect with those who would cast their votes each week.

In his congressional race, he will likely be able to reach voters in ways that his competitor can't. Because of his TV training, he already knows how to do so.

Lastly, his two previous losses -- he came in second place behind Ruben Studdard during the second season of "Idol" and placed second behind Arsenio Hall in the fifth season of "Celebrity Apprentice" -- could prove to be just the hook in his bid for Congress.

Going up against an incumbent in a traditionally Republican district, voters will see Aiken as the underdog and may rally behind him. Voters may feel that his time has come.

And everyone roots for the underdog.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Omarosa Manigault.

@highlight

Ex-"Apprentice" star Omarosa Manigault says reality TV was good training for Clay Aiken

@highlight

Aiken announced he is running for Congress in North Carolina as a Democrat

@highlight

Manigault: Reality TV makes you appeal for mass votes and requires you to have thick skin(CNN) -- Despite the ribbing he took from President Barack Obama and comedian Seth Meyers, media mogul Donald Trump proclaimed Saturday night's White House Correspondents Dinner "an entertaining evening."

Trump, who has indicated that he is considering a run for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination, was the focus of many of the barbs thrown by Obama and head "Saturday Night Live" writer Meyers.

In Washington, Trump still talk of town

"They were pretty personal, but I expected that I was going to be zinged," Trump told CNN's Don Lemon on Sunday night.

At one point in the presentation, Obama singled out an unsmiling Trump and credited him with making hard decisions -- such as firing Gary Busey over Meat Loaf on an episode of "The Celebrity Apprentice" -- and succeeding in his push for the president to release his long-form birth certificate.

"Now, he can focus on more important matters like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?" Obama said, referring to Neil Armstrong's 1969 walk on the moon, the alleged UFO crash in New Mexico and the deaths of rappers Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur.

But appearances aside, Trump had nothing but good things to say about Obama's comedic timing, telling CNN that "some of what the president did was pretty good."

"It's my honor," he added, referring to the amount of jokes directed at him. "It was a lion's pit, I was walking into it, I've been there before, and you know, I thought it was an entertaining evening."

He had less kind words for Meyers, however, calling his performance "poor."

"I thought that Seth had a hard time getting the words out," he said.

Trump has not formally announced a run for the presidential nomination, saying it would be inappropriate to do so while his reality show "Celebrity Apprentice" is airing.

Trump a serious contender?

He said Sunday that he is giving it "very, very serious thought," and an announcement will be made before June.

"I think a lot of people will be very happy with my announcement," he told Lemon.

Watch CNN Newsroom weekdays 9am to 3pm ET and weekends. For the latest from the CNN Newsroom click here.

@highlight

Donald Trump calls annual White House press event an "entertaining evening"

@highlight

He was the focus of many of the jokes from Obama and headliner Seth Meyers

@highlight

"I expected that I was going to be zinged," Trump saysWashington (CNN) -- The House ethics committee on Thursday accused veteran Rep. Charles Rangel of 13 violations of House rules involving alleged financial wrongdoing and harming the credibility of Congress.

The charges accused the 20-term Democrat from New York of using his influence to solicit donations for a college policy center in his name from corporate heads and others with business before the powerful House Ways and Means Committee that Rangel chaired until forced to give up the leadership position earlier this year.

Other charges involve alleged income tax and financial disclosure violations, as well as improper use of government mail service and letterhead.

"Credibility is what's at stake here; the very credibility of the House itself before the American people," said Rep. Mike McCaul, the ranking Republican on a subcommittee that will hold a trial-like hearing on the charges against Rangel.

McCaul spoke at the subcommittee's first meeting, described as an organizational session. Rangel was not required to attend and did not show up to hear the first public disclosure of the formal charges against him.

Asked later about his response to the charges, Rangel sounded contrite in saying he may have been "overzealous" in serving the public but took some comfort that the allegations involved no "corruption" or "self-dealing."

"I can't make an excuse for serious violations, but I can have an explanation of my intent," he said. "And to large degree that's what my life has been all about--intent."

Rangel said it was "a very, very rough period for me and my family, but we all, including my community, will get by this."

In the days leading up to the hearing, Rangel had said he welcomed the completion of a two-year investigation by the ethics committee so that he could finally respond to specific accusations against him.

According to documents released by the committee, Rangel first learned of the charges being pursued by an investigating subcommittee on June 17. He filed a motion to have the charges dismissed, which the investigating panel denied, the documents showed.

In a document dated Wednesday, Rangel's lawyers challenged the scope of the charges against him, saying Rangel "did not abuse his official position or enrich himself financially."

"He did not target for solicitation foundations, corporations or individuals with business before the Ways & Means Committee, nor did he offer or provide preferential treatment or favors to potential contributors," the document said. "He received no prohibited benefit, direct or indirect, from his work on behalf of this program that violates the ethics rules."

However, the document said Rangel "recognizes that the public would have been better served if he had consulted the Standards Committee staff in advance" of soliciting funding for the college center.

Rangel said this week that his lawyers were in talks with committee lawyers on a possible deal to settle the case without a hearing. When Thursday's hearing was delayed for 55 minutes with no explanation, rumors of an imminent agreement quickly spread.

iReport: Sound off on this story

However, the panel gathered and held the hearing, and it remained unclear whether a settlement avoiding the spectacle of a trial hearing was possible.

According to the charges, Rangel allegedly failed to report more than $600,000 on financial disclosure reports and improperly used a rent-subsidized apartment as a campaign office for over a decade and failed to pay taxes on a home in the Dominican Republic.

Rangel "argues that errors on his personal taxes do not implicate discharge of his official responsibilities," committee investigators concluded in response to Rangel's request to have the charges dismissed. He "appears to be operating under the erroneous belief that the only conduct subject to discipline is conduct directly related to the discharge of his official responsibilities."

An investigative subcommittee report on Rangel's dealings, available on the committee's website, detailed a lengthy series of meetings the congressman held with business leaders to raise funds for the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Policy at the City College of New York. His repeated attempts to woo potential donors violated the House's solicitation and gift ban, the report said.

Among other things, the report stated that Rangel met with a lobbyist for insurance giant AIG in April 2008 with the objective to "close" a $10 million "gift for the Rangel Center."

At the meeting, "AIG raised concerns about a potential donation, including the potential headline risk," the report stated. But Rangel pushed ahead, asking "AIG, at least twice, what was necessary to get this done."

During the period of time that Rangel was seeking donations from AIG, according to committee investigators, the company was lobbying the House on several tax and trade issues -- matters over which Rangel exercised considerable influence.

It also noted that, in March 2007, he used congressional letterhead to send notes to business leaders such as Donald Trump, in which he requested meetings to discuss the Rangel Center.

The congressman's "acceptance of favors and benefits from donors to the Rangel Center ... might be construed by reasonable persons as influencing the performance of his governmental duties," the report concluded, adding that the "accumulation of (Rangel's) actions reflected poorly on the institution of the House and, thereby, brought discredit to the House."

In the July 28 response, Rangel's lawyers argued that some of the cited infractions were unintended in his effort to help the college.

"If he mistakenly used the wrong letterhead or other modest resources in this worthy cause, the error was made in good faith," the document said.

"It is undisputed that every single charitable contribution in this case went to CCNY, a public educational institution, and not to the congressman," it said, later adding that"the uncontroverted evidence is that Congressman Rangel never suggested that any donor to the Rangel Center would receive favorable consideration in legislative matters and never gave preferential treatment to any contributor."

McCaul said the allegations against Rangel, if proven, would violate "the most fundamental code of conduct" for House members.

Rep. Gene Green of Texas, a Democrat who led a two-year ethics subcommittee investigation of Rangel, said it was a difficult job.

"The task is even more difficult when the subject has befriended and mentored so many new members, and I'm one of them," Green said.

Another ethics committee member, Republican Rep. Jo Bonner of Alabama, said "this is truly a sad day where no one, regardless of their partisan stripes, should rejoice."

Rangel temporarily stepped down as Ways and Means Committee chairman earlier this year following the announcement of an ethics investigation of several allegations, including failure to pay taxes on the Dominican Republic residence.

The House ethics committee previously admonished Rangel for violating rules on receiving gifts. Specifically, the committee found that Rangel violated House gift rules by accepting reimbursement payments for travel to conferences in the Caribbean in 2007 and 2008.

Rangel, whose autobiography that discusses his Korean War experience is titled "And I Haven't Had a Bad Day Since," told reporters earlier Thursday that "I have to reassess that (statement)" in light of the pending hearing.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Thursday -- in response to a question about Rangel -- that there must be "accountability" and "transparency" in cases of ethical transgressions.

"Holding a high ethical standard is a serious responsibility ... and a top priority" for the House Democratic leadership, she said. In terms of political fallout from cases such as Rangel's, "the chips will fall where they may," she said.

Congressional Democrats have reportedly expressed concern that an extended public airing of the charges against Rangel could damage the party's prospects in the November midterm elections.

CNN's Deirdre Walsh, Brianna Keilar, Evan Glass, Alan Silverleib and Tom Cohen contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Rangel offers his first response to the charges made public Thursday

@highlight

NEW: Rangel says he may have been overzealous but was serving his country

@highlight

The House ethics committee charges Rangel with 13 violations

@highlight

Charges described alleged influence-peddling for donations to a college center in his name(CNN) -- Memo to the "adults" of the Republican Party:

If you notice that I have changed my current missive to address adults (as opposed to addressing the establishment as I've done in the previous two), this was done to acknowledge Indiana GOP Chairman Eric Holcomb.

Holcomb said recently, "Republicans are fretting the four dancing now can't beat Obama in the fall â€” so their national talent search continues," adding that the pleas had come from "the adults" in the party.

The truth of the matter is I like the phrase "the adults" much more than "the establishment" because it gives much more insight into the current state of the GOP. Chairman Holcomb clearly meant to differentiate the adults from the many children in the Republican Party.

This caused me to get very nostalgic in thinking back to Thanksgiving dinners at my grandparents' house in the 1950s. In rural South Louisiana, the adults sat in the big dining room with real chairs, silverware, china, crystal and wine. Whereas the children were relegated to sitting on the front porch with folding chairs, card tables, paper plates and Dixie cups. We had our choice between orange pop and Barq's (that's root beer.)

What really used to tick me off -- in fact it was the most scarring event of my childhood -- my Aunt Lilly used to bring Leidenheimer New Orleans french bread for the adults and we kids were forced to eat cruddy Baton Rouge sliced white bread. We were a rowdy bunch but deep down inside we always wondered what it would be like to sit with the adults at the big table.

Herein lies your problem. You've got Karl Rove, Chris Christie, Mitt Romney, George Will, Mitch Daniels, Jeb Bush, and all the rest of 'em in the dining room. Out on the front porch is Sarah Palin, Newt, the Ricks (Santorum and Perry), Michele Bachmann, and Donald Trump.

The adults have been trying to wire this thing up for some time and the children just won't behave on the front porch. You've got Santorum sneaking upstairs checking the medicine cabinet to see who is taking birth control pills.

Let's not forget, just as Thanksgiving dinner was over we all had to get together under the oak tree in the front yard for the family photograph. And this was the '50s, we just did as we were told. But when you guys organize the family photo shoot in Tampa this coming August you are gonna have a hell of a time getting all of the children to line up for the picture.

Sarah is not too happy about the way that you look at her. In fact, she has expressed a willingness to help out in Tampa by indicating her willingness to serve as your party's nominee. And if it is possible for George Will to get any whiter than he is, he will certainly turn to some shade of John McCain.

Then you've got the problem of Newt out at the children's table. He doesn't play well with others. And it is gonna be hard to get him in line for the family photo. Newt is the kind of guy who can't seem to get the proper amount of attention and he's not the "go along to get along" type.

I see from the news that Mitt has sent his super PAC goons to snatch up little Ricky Santorum and take him behind the woodshed for a little "chat." That ought to keep him subdued through Michigan. But that child has built up a lot of resentment over the years and has proven to be quite pesky. My guess is that you could have more trouble ahead with Santorum. He is what my aunt would refer to as a "difficult" child.

Now the kids on the front porch have gotten restless and they are demanding entry into the big dining room. For the longest time you've been able to keep these pesky brats at bay. Every now and then one of them serves as some kind of an irritant -- Pat Buchanan being a notable example. You let him sit at the big table at the convention in Houston in 1992 and he used the wrong fork to say the least.

It strikes me that a lot of these people will want to sit at the big table in Tampa. And like Pat Buchanan (he's still giving you guys fits) they are gonna have bad table manners. Rick Santorum will want to give a speech on the evils of contraception. Newt is going to talk about the Apocalypse. And how are you going to be able to shut up people like Trump, Bachmann, Perry and the rest of them? It's enough to make me feel sorry for you boys.

In the end, you have to get this thing to work out. And Mitt is your only hope because Santorum is going to be part of a seven-state strategy. He can carry Idaho, Utah, Wyoming, South Carolina, Alabama, Mississippi, and Oklahoma. That's about it. You know as well as I do that if Santorum is your nominee, you won't have two Senate candidates come to Tampa.

You will have House candidates running away from the national ticket as fast as the devil runs from holy water. The whole thing will break down on you. In other words, you got a mell of a hess going on.

And a well-mannered adult table conversation would never lead to making another guest uncomfortable. It seems that Jeb Bush couldn't help but chastise fellow adult Mitt for his stance on immigration. Y'all are really having some problems. You adults better watch Newt because he could bust in at any time and demand papers for the help.

You're having what I refer to as a Ray Charles/Lester Maddox moment (by that I mean your problem is obvious.) Other than both being from Georgia, what could Lester Maddox and Ray Charles have in common? I'm sure that you recall they once asked the great Mr. Charles what was the worst thing about being blind, he instantly replied, "well you can't see." Lester Maddox once observed the problem with conditions in the Georgia prisons was the quality of the inmates.

Obviously, the problem you adults are having is the quality of the Republicans voting in these primaries and caucuses. They are making y'all as batty as they are.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Carville.

@highlight

James Carville says the "adults" in GOP are unhappy with the four remaining candidates

@highlight

He says they fear that none of them are capable of defeating President Obama

@highlight

Carville: If Santorum wins nomination, GOP House, Senate candidates will run for cover

@highlight

Carville: The Republicans' only realistic choice is to unite behind Mitt Romney(CNN)Futuristic superstructures, shimmering glass facades and fuzzier lines between indoor and outdoor spaces.

These are some of the major trends expected in the coming year as the global aviation industry strives to meet ever-increasing demands.

With few major projects scheduled for completion in 2015, it's likely to be seen as a transition year as many airports upgrade facilities or begin new building projects to cope with a forecast 3.6 billion global air passengers in 2016.

Here's what to expect over the next 12 months.

China

China's efforts to rapidly expand its airport infrastructure are expected to reach a peak in 2015 with scores of regional airstrips scheduled for opening.

Official government plans have previously claimed that the number of airports will expand from 175 in 2010 to 230 in 2015 as the country ramps up its aviation industry in step with economic expansion.

While many of these are smaller facilities have yet to be officially announced, several larger projects have been widely publicized.

In Beijing, work gets underway in earnest this year on a $14 billion international airport in the city's southern Daxing district.

The facility is scheduled to come online in 2017 and is reportedly expected to handle up to 72 million passengers annually by 2025.

Meanwhile, at Chongqing Jianbei International Airport, serving the largest city in southwestern China, a new terminal three is expected to become operational this year.

It's claimed the facility, designed for further expansion to meet expected growing demand, will be able to handle up to 55 million people annually, the largest capacity of any single terminal.

In the same Chinese province, the city of Wulong is expected to get to work on its own airport scheduled for completion in 2017.

Japan

With low-cost carriers on the rise in Japan, Tokyo's Narita International Airport is adding a new terminal dedicated to exclusively to no-frills flights.

Terminal 3, designed to handle 50 million passengers a year, is expected to open in March or April.

It'll contain plenty of places where those budget passengers can spend their savings, including a vast duty free shopping area and Japan's largest airport food court.

Singapore

Once again Changi Airport Singapore, considered by many to be the world's best, appears to be raising the bar with a futuristic new complex that's likely to revolutionize terminal design.

After breaking ground in December, work begins in earnest this year on Jewel Changi Airport, an impressive-looking palace of glass that will shroud retail, entertainment and leisure outlets as well as a multi-level gardens and walking trails.

The centerpiece will be the Rain Vortex, a 40-meter-tall waterfall cascading from the roof of the glass dome.

Mexico

Construction on another eagerly anticipated international airport gets underway in 2015 in Mexico City.

Mexico City International Airport, a collaboration between world-renowned architects, Briton Norman Foster and Mexico's Fernando Romero, is designed to be the world's most sustainable when it opens in 2018.

Foster & Partners says that because the structure will be one massive terminal housed under vast canopies of glass, it'll require fewer materials and less energy than the standard multi-building airport.

Brazil

New management is taking over and re-branding Rio Galeao -- Tom Jobim International Airport.

The country's second-busiest airport after Sao Paolo is undergoing a long overdue facelift in anticipation of the 2016 Olympics.

About $2 billion is going into infrastructure construction, which covers everything from restrooms to runways.

The upgrade to four decades-old facilities should allow the airport to increase annual capacity from 18 million passengers to 30 million without the need for an extra runway.

The Netherlands

Mainly aimed at increasing retail opportunities, a revamp of Amsterdam Airport Schiphol's Terminal 2 departure lounge is scheduled for completion in the summer of 2015.

Without going into detail, information from the airport trumpets the renovated area's six themed sections, titled "luxury," "family," "travel and culture," "modern Dutch," "see buy fly," "fashion and lifestyle" and "care and wellness."

On a more boozy note, it'll get Europe's first Johnnie Walker House luxury retail concept store and, naturally, a Heineken bar.

Germany

Munich Airport's new satellite facility to expand its Terminal 2 should be complete by the third quarter of 2015, potentially increasing annual capacity to 17 million passengers.

After work is complete, there'll be an operational test phase to make sure everything's working.

If it is, Star Alliance member airlines (including Lufthansa, Air China, Singapore Airlines and United) will move some flights over to the new building.

During similar test phases, safety concerns emerged at Berlin's Brandenburg International Airport, originally slated to open around 2011 or 2012.

Despite appearances of having been completed, it's still not open.

A string of management and engineering setbacks have dogged the project and doubled its initial projected cost.

Brandenburg will not open in 2015, and latest reports say it may be 2017 before it's fully up and running.

Saudi Arabia

Also not opening in 2015 is an expansion project at Jeddah's King Abdulaziz International Airport, now slated for completion early in 2016 after originally being scheduled for a 2014 delivery.

The expansion is part of a project to up Saudi Arabia's passenger capacity to 100 million passengers annually by 2020.

Jeddah's airport was recently ranked the world's second worst in an annual survey by the Sleeping In Airports website.

Trends

As these facilities come on line, passengers may begin to notice new trends emerging in airport design -- chiefly a greater sense of space and place.

Angela Gittens, director general of Airports Council International, says the changes are all about meeting passenger demands, with surveys indicating they're looking for a greater sense of orientation, control, safety, visibility and openness.

In real terms this means bringing the outdoors into the picture.

Changi Airport Singapore has been a leader in this area, with its butterfly garden and rooftop green spaces, while passengers with a stopover at Munich Airport can wander through an outdoor plaza hosting exhibits and performances, or visit an outdoor terrace.

Updated facilities are also incorporating glass facades to bring natural light inside.

This strategy, says Gittens, also improves energy efficiency.

"Not only do these new windows allow for the use of natural light," she adds "but they are made with energy efficient materials that can repel heat and insulate against cold."

'A sense of place'

David Stewart, head of airport development for the International Air Transport Association, says airport authorities are increasingly understanding that passengers want to get a feel of what's local.

"They're craving a sense of place," he says.

Gittens says fashioning an airport to better represent the city it serves is becoming an important point of differentiation.

One of the easiest ways to do this is with food and big name chefs.

While McDonald's and Starbucks outlets will continue to exist, more airports are dishing out regional cuisine made by local chefs, such as Gordon Ramsay's Plane Food at London Heathrow and Carles Gaig's Catalan-inspired Porta Gaig in Barcelona.

It's not just high-end eateries bringing local to the airport.

Hung's Delicacies in Hong Kong International favors braised meats and regional dishes.

Airbrau in Munich Airport Plaza is a Bavarian brewery that serves its own beer, along with time-honored dishes like schnitzel, suckling pig and sauerkraut.

New music, old masters

National culture is also making its way into airports.

While many international airports have at least a little space devoted to displays of art, some are taking it up a notch.

At the Traditional Korean Cultural Experience Zone at Seoul's Incheon Airport, passengers can learn about calligraphy or fan-making, or check out handicrafts while listening to live musicians.

Workshops, demonstrations and performances are scheduled on a regular basis.

Amsterdam's Schiphol was the first airport to house its own art museum beyond passport control.

Currently under renovation, the pioneering Schiphol outpost of the Rijksmuseum provides a glimpse into local life through special exhibitions and the artworks of Dutch masters.

Airports are also literally being connected to the cities they serve by modern mass transit.

Airports as far flung from the cities they serve, including Washington Dulles and Xian Xianyang (among the 10 busiest airports in China), are developing linking train lines in order to accommodate travelers looking to make local connections.

@highlight

China said to be increasing its operational airports to 230 in 2015

@highlight

Tokyo and Munich to open new terminal facilities, Amsterdam and Rio will get upgrades

@highlight

Beijing, Mexico City and Singapore press ahead with impressive new projects

@highlight

More delays for Berlin's long overdue new Brandenburg airport, originally slated for 2012(CNN) -- Whenever I visit Washington, I can't help but think this is the town that elected a crackhead as its mayor.

I know, I know it's not PC to say, but just because it's insensitive doesn't mean it isn't true.

But think about this: There is footage of Marion Barry in a room of crack smoke saying, "Bitch set me up." And yet that image, that video did not disqualify him from being seen as a viable political option in the mind of voters. In fact, not only was he re-elected mayor after serving time in a federal prison, today he sits on the City Council, all because he managed to convince enough black people that the video of him with the crack pipe in his mouth was white people's fault.      

When analyzing what is wrong with our government, allow me to present this example as Exhibit A.  

Exhibit B would be Newt Gingrich, who cheated on two wives and is the only speaker of the House to have been disciplined for ethics violations. And yet somehow he is running for president of the United States as a religious conservative and managed to get 8% of the votes during last week's straw poll in Florida.

Are you freaking kidding me?

The fact that he is even on camera discussing the country's sense of morality during the GOP debates should be offensive to any thinking person regardless of party affiliation. And yet someone, right now, is thinking about sending his campaign a check.

And who can forget Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer, who last year, in trying to push a controversial immigration law, said law enforcement officials found headless bodies in the desert, the work of a Mexican cartel. But she was forced to admit that wasn't true, that she had "misspoke." What she didn't speak about was her close ties to the private prisons that were set to profit because of the new law. Ties like her campaign manager and her spokesman being former lobbyists for private prison companies. And despite the obvious conflict of interest, she won easily, saying on election Tuesday, "Tonight, the people have redeemed and renewed America."

Nice work, people.

I could go on but I think you see what I'm getting at: The biggest reason government is broken is because of voters.

Let's face it. A lot of us are just plain stupid.

Or at the very least lazy. 

We want our candidates to use easy-to-digest buzz words such as "family values" or "clean energy" so we don't have to actually invest too much time thinking. We can just slip our brains into auto-pilot and cruise on into November.  

Do I believe our politicians need to be perfect? No.

But damn, you would think people would draw the line at crack.

Or blatant hypocrisy.

Or just making stuff up as a candidate goes along.

Each time Rep. Michele Bachmann insinuates falsehoods into her arguments, as she did earlier this month on the "Today Show" by suggesting HPV vaccinations cause mental retardation, I think: A group of people on auto-pilot in Minnesota did this to us.

When you know important debates are influenced by people who don't like being bothered with facts, you question just how many of the country's problems over the years have been caused by people who should not have been involved in the process in the first place. 

But they are because of us. So can we genuinely complain about government without accepting a lot of the blame? I don't think so. After all, they didn't elect themselves. So if we want government to work, we have to be smarter about our choices. It's one thing to have a population with a variety of political sensibilities; it's another to be a country full of idiots. Too many times we vote and consequently govern like the latter.

We have to move away from easy-to-repeat campaign slogans and promises of easy solutions, because we're a country with more than 300 million people, a complicated racial and religious history and the world's largest GDP. There are no easy solutions.

So if you're the kind of person who likes to say "I don't follow politics," let me remind you that no one lives in a vacuum and that sentiment epitomizes what is wrong with our government. I don't blame Sarah Palin for thinking she can still toss her hat in the ring. I blame us voters for creating an environment in which a Palin or a Gingrich or even a reality TV star like Donald Trump can feel as if they can run and even be taken seriously.      

Last week I was bombarded with e-mails from readers who said Social Security should be protected because they paid into it, but they didn't care about Medicaid or Medicare because the government pays for those. And in 13 months some of these people will be voting for president.

You want to know what's wrong with government?

I just presented you with Exhibit C.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of LZ Granderson.

@highlight

LZ Granderson: Government is only as good as the people we elect

@highlight

He says voters often seem to have little understanding of the issues

@highlight

He says we also vote for people who have no regard for the facts

@highlight

Granderson: If government is broken, it's our faultNew York (CNN) -- A Canadian beauty pageant contestant who was disqualified when the Miss Universe Canada organizers discovered she was transgender said Tuesday she had been devastated by the decision and wanted a clear change in the rules.

After initially disqualifying Talackova, organizers of the Miss Universe beauty pageant reversed course late Monday, saying she can participate.

In a statement, the Miss Universe Organization said Jenna Talackova can compete provided "she meets the legal gender recognition requirements of Canada, and the standards established by other international competitions."

The statement, however, did not elaborate on what the requirements were.

The 6-foot-1-inch blond model told a news conference Tuesday of the pain the row had caused her.

"I am a woman. I was devastated and I felt that excluding me for the reason that they gave was unjust," she said.

Talackova, a 23-year-old Vancouver resident, also called on Donald Trump, who owns the Miss Universe competition, to state "in plain words" whether she will be able to compete and go forward to the Miss Universe final if she wins her country's contest.

"I have never asked for any special consideration. I only wanted to compete," she said.

"I also want Mr. Trump to clearly state that this rule will be eliminated because I do not want any other woman to suffer the discrimination that I have to endure."

Speaking to CNN Tuesday, Trump said that according to the laws of Canada and the United States, Talackova should be allowed to enter the pageant.

"So she will be entering the Miss Canada pageant, but we went strictly by the laws," he said.

"As with any competition, the Miss Universe pageant has rules that apply to all of its franchises around the world. Such rules include, but are not limited to, citizenship, age, and marital status requirements. Additionally, the rules currently state that all contestants must be naturally born females," the Miss Universe organization said.

Those rules are not posted on the Miss Universe website.

High profile feminist lawyer Gloria Allred, speaking alongside Talackova, also said Trump needed to clear up the confusion over Talackova's participation.

"We need a clear answer -- not a wimpy, wishy-washy type of answer -- but something that we can take to the bank. Will Jenna be allowed to compete or not? Will he eliminate this abhorrent rule or not?"

Allred said Talackova, who until Tuesday had not spoken to reporters, was considering all legal options.

The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, or GLAAD, commended the pageant organizer's decision Monday night.

"The Miss Universe Organization made the right decision and has taken an important first step," the group said.

Talackova was one of the 65 finalists selected to contend for the title of Miss Universe Canada and the honor of representing her country in the Miss Universe competition.

But organizers told her last month she could not compete because she lied about having undergone sexual reassignment surgery and did not meet requirements for the pageant.

At the time, the Miss Universe Organization said current rules state that all contestants must be a "naturally born female."

In a 2010 interview in Thailand, where she was competing for Miss International Queen, a competition for transgender women, Talackova said she knew she was a girl at age 4. She said she started hormone therapy at age 14 and underwent sexual reassignment surgery at 19.

After Talackova's disqualification, social media users flooded the Facebook page of Miss Universe Canada with comments criticizing the decision.

A petition started on the social change website Change.org garnered more than 41,000 signatures calling for organizers to reverse their ruling.

The 61st annual Miss Universe Canada Pageant will be held in Toronto on May 19.

CNN's Chris Boyette and Alan Duke contributed to this report.

@highlight

Organizers say Talackova can participate if she meets certain requirements

@highlight

The organizers did not elaborate on them

@highlight

Earlier, they said she could not compete because she was not a "naturally born female"

@highlight

Talackova underwent gender reassignment surgery at 19Washington (CNN) -- The next time Michelle Obama goes to rally for a candidate at a campaign event, she might want to take a good look at the sign pasted on the front of her podium.

Speaking at an event for Iowa Senate candidate Bruce Braley, the first lady mispronounced the Democratic hopeful's name not once, not twice, but seven times in front of a crowd of supporters.

"I'm very excited to be here to support your next Senator from Iowa, our friend Bruce Bailey," the first lady said commencing her speech on Friday.

"Iowa, if you want a leader that shares your values and will stand up for your families out in Washington, then you need to elect Bruce Bailey to the U.S. Senate," she said again a few sentences later.

Obama continued to mispronounce the Braley's name five more times until she was interrupted by an audience member, who made her aware of her continued slip-up.

"Braley?" she asked, looking quizzical. "What did I say? I'm losing it," she laughed. "I'm getting old."

"Vote dot Bruce Braley dot com," she finally said, correcting herself, to some very loud applause.

"I know where I am. I know what I'm doing," she reassured the crowd.

Republicans were quick to criticize the first lady for her mistake.

"First lady botches name of Dem Senate candidate at rally," Republican National Committee spokesman Sean Spicer tweeted.

"WH Legal Counsel might want to prepare for a call from Bruce Braley, gotta avoid a "litigious situation" over mispronouncing name #IAsen," National Republican Senatorial Committee spokesman Brad Dayspring tweeted.

Donald Trump also weighed in.

"If a conservative Republican made the mistake that Mrs. Obama just made by calling Braley by the wrong name, it would be the biggest story!"

Key Midterm races to watch

At least the first lady wasn't the first high-profile Democrat to make this exact same blunder.

At the Harkin Steak Fry just a few weeks ago in Iowa, former President Bill Clinton also botched Braley's last name.

"You know what you ought to do to honor the Harkin legacy -- and that is to elect Bruce Bailey," Clinton said.

Later, in what could have simply been the case of a tangled tongue, the first lady also made an incorrect comment about Braley's past.

"As the son of a schoolteacher -- and I love his mom too -- As a Marine Corps Veteran, Bruce worked his way through college, waiting tables, working at a grain elevator, building bridges with a county roads department," Obama said.

Braley is not a Marine Corps veteran, although his father, Byard Braley, was. The first lady was referencing Braley's parents in the beginning part of the sentence.

@highlight

First lady Michelle Obama mispronounces Iowa Senate candidate's name seven times

@highlight

Former President Bill Clinton made the same mistake a few weeks ago

@highlight

Obama also confused Braley and his father, calling him a Marine Corps veteran(CNN) -- After seven years of planning and construction costing over $150 million, Donald Trump's dream to open a golf course in Scotland was finally realized on Tuesday.

The U.S.-based billionaire hit the ceremonial first tee shot at Trump International Golf Links, having weathered a storm of controversy involving environmentalists, local residents and politicians.

"It's been worth it," he told CNN during his rain and wind-swept round at the venue. "This is truly the greatest golf course anywhere in the world. Everybody knows it. Most people are saying it and most of the golf people are saying it, most importantly."

Trump welcomed guests from the European Tour and the Ryder Cup organizing committee, and told them: "There's really nothing like it."

Set on the east coast of Scotland, eight miles north of the city of Aberdeen, the course occupies part of the private Menie Estate, bought by Trump in 2006.

The opening of the championship course is the first step towards the American tycoon's goal of creating a resort featuring a second golf course, a hotel, luxury holiday homes and a residential village.

Trump expects the total bill for the development to exceed a billion dollars, although the next stage of building is currently on hold while he contests plans to build an offshore wind farm nearby.

Rarely has a new golf course had such criticism and hype. Accusations of bullying from local residents and objections from environmental groups were documented in the movie "You've Been Trumped," while sport writers have been thrilled at every new photo revealing the dramatic holes.

The sheer amount of money pumped into the project enabled English golf architect Martin Hawtree to manipulate the land on an unprecedented scale.

"This is one of the most extraordinary golf links sites you have seen or will ever see," Hawtree said at the opening ceremony. "There is no doubt in my mind it will be in the top three in the world. I just don't know who'll be number two or three!"

Before the opening, Golf World magazine announced that the course has gone straight into its UK course rankings at number eight, ahead of several British Open venues including Royal Lytham & St. Annes, which will host the golf season's third major tournament next week.

Trump's ultimate goal is to bring a major tournament to his latest course, and the European Tour chief executive George O'Grady hinted that it may not be far away.

"Great courses need great tournaments," said O'Grady, "We will work with Mr. Trump to bring the right event here."

Sandy Jones of the Great Britain and Ireland Professional Golfers' Association made the only reference to the saga of controversy and criticism around the course's planning:

"Golf is a responsible business. It embraces the environment. I wish the environmentalists would embrace golf," he said.

On the course, Trump was joined by one of the European Tour's most successful players, Colin Montgomerie, who described the course as "dramatic and spectacular."

On the question of whether Trump International will ever host the British Open or a Ryder Cup event, the Scottish golfer was optimistic.

"There's no doubt that tournament golf will come here," the 49-year-old former European Ryder Cup captain said.

"It's a fantastic opportunity for people locally, nationally and internationally to come to this area."

Trump championed his Scottish family ties throughout the planning process, and continued the theme at the opening ceremony as he gave out whiskey and shortbread to invited guests.

The tale of how an American billionaire's dream became reality across the pond has made Trump International Golf Links one of the hottest tickets of the summer, with tee times already in short supply.

The course opens to the public on Sunday, with green fees costing $310 on a weekend or $233 on a weekday, the same price as the summer rate on the prestigious Old Course at St. Andrews, known as "the home of golf."

@highlight

Donald Trump's Scottish golf course cost $150 million to create

@highlight

Its creation was hugely unpopular with locals and environmental groups

@highlight

Golf World magazine has already ranked the course as the eighth best in Britain

@highlight

It opens to the public this Sunday and green fees will be same as a round at St. Andrews(CNN) -- "Take our country back."

Almost as soon as Barack Obama became president four years ago, we began hearing that phrase, as if black folks had stolen the White House. Each time I see one of those "Take Our Country Back" signs on someone's lawn, I want to knock on the door and ask, "from whom?"

From whom are you trying to take this country back?

But I don't, because I already know the answer.

It's the same answer to the question of why so many people still don't believe that President Obama was born in the United States. Or why they continue to question his faith or why Donald Trump feels comfortable insulting the office by promising his pocket change in exchange for Obama's college transcripts, as if the president is a stripper desperate for singles.

He and his kind are so pathetic.

They don't just disagree with him. They disrespect him, because in their minds, he's not supposed to be there. He got a handout. He's not a real American. Something about him ain't ... quite ... right.

Opinion: Obama's victory won't transform America

So when he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, his critics spent more time discrediting the importance of the award than congratulating him for winning it.

When unemployment fell under 8%, they accused the Obama administration of fixing the numbers.

When the president opted to campaign instead of surveying the damage caused by Hurricane Isaac sooner, he was called selfish. When Obama left the campaign trail to survey the damage caused by Hurricane Sandy, former FEMA Director Michael Brown criticized him for responding too quickly.

Nothing he did was good enough for them.

But on Tuesday, it was good enough for the majority of real Americans.

We watched then-congressman Pete Hoekstra call the stimulus package a failure and then show up for a groundbreaking ceremony for a manufacturing plant made possible by the stimulus. We saw Texas Gov. Rick Perry call the stimulus a waste during debates while quietly using stimulus money to balance his state's budget. Rep. Paul Ryan, the supposed numbers man of the Republican Party, repeatedly called the stimulus a wasteful spending spree, and then we found out he wrote letters asking for stimulus money in his district (PDF), because according to him, it would "stimulate the local and area economy by creating new jobs."

It was hard for real Americans to take criticism of the Recovery Act seriously when those doing the criticizing were busy talking out of both sides of their anti-Obama mouths.

And that's exactly what we've watched for much of four years: the president's critics being more focused on making him look like a failure than on helping the country succeed.

Some call it politics.

I call it unpatriotic.

Either way, despite the disrespect and the disregard and the attempts to suppress votes or intimidate voters, despite the misguided cry of "take our country back," Obama was re-elected because the majority of the American people saw the truth.

You remember when Ryan stood up in front of nation during the Republican National Convention and blamed the president for a plant closing in Janesville, Wisconsin? Yeah, turns out the closure was planned before Obama even took office. The people in Janesville knew the truth, which is probably why more than 60% of the county it's in voted for Obama.

Opinion: Five things Obama must do

There is no need to take this country back, because it hasn't gone anywhere ... except forward ... toward a more perfect union where the "All-American look" is getting a little bit harder to define. That may make a lot of people uncomfortable, but personal discomfort isn't a good enough reason to slight 25 consecutive months of job growth, resurgent house prices and corporations seeing record profit. Every president since Theodore Roosevelt has talked about reforming health care, and Obama is the one who got it done -- yet his critics say he's done nothing since he's been in office.

Now, of course, there is still a lot of work ahead. We have a deficit to address, a fiscal cliff that is threatening millions of jobs and a GDP that is limping. And the administration is going to make mistakes. Every administration does.

But now that this election is finally over, maybe more Republicans will be willing to take a page from the book of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and give Obama some credit for the things he's done right. We can still challenge the president's ideas without asking for his papers or spitting on our highest office.

When I think about where this country was four years ago -- with us losing hundreds of thousands of jobs a month, engulfed in two wars and disliked by many of our allies -- I believe Obama has done a lot that's right.

And from the looks of his resounding re-election, the majority of real Americans feel the same way.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of LZ Granderson.

@highlight

LZ Granderson: Some critics don't just disagree with him; they disrespect him

@highlight

Nothing Obama has ever done was good enough for them, Granderson says

@highlight

But on Tuesday, it was good enough for voters, he says

@highlight

No one needs to take this country back, because it hasn't been stolen, says Granderson(CNN) -- In the marshland just south of the seaside-resort of Anaklia in Western Georgia, the air is often filled with birdsong and the croak of tiny frogs. But added to nature's chorus is the sound of construction, something difficult to escape along Georgia's Black Sea Coast.

Anaklia is still being built and the marshlands are being drained to make way for new five-star hotels. A new railway and airport are planned as the government aims to bring back the tourists who used to come to Anaklia during Soviet times.

But there are bigger plans than that. Georgia's president Mikheil Saakashvili wants to build a whole new city called Lazika. The promotional video for it presents an impression of futuristic skyscrapers, golf courses and high-end luxury for the entrepreneurs who will make this city their home.

Lazika will be a new port on Georgia's Black Sea coast and a special economic zone where businesses can operate under UK law. Rather than attract businesses to established cities the government feels it's easier to start from scratch.

"If we want to be exceptional and if we want to create this hub economy, a place for the rest of the world to come and invest in Georgia, then we have to be creative," says Vera Kobalia, Georgia's 28-year-old economy minister. "And Lazika is being very creative."

And all this in five years, according to Iva Davitaia who admits that there are currently no international investors in the project "but we do have international interest."

Many local residents are enthusiastic as Lazika would mean jobs for a community that struggles to make a living through agriculture. But just 20 kilometers (12 miles) south is Poti, Georgia's main port that others believe should be revived before a new city is built.

Currently the area is sparsely populated and Georgia has a population of around 4.5 million, begging the question 'Where will the 500,000 future Lazika residents come from?'

President Saakashvili is a man who operates at breakneck speed and is quick to defend Lazika.

"We are looking for a new destination not for the sake of spending lots of money like some other governments have done just to show off," he says.

"We only look at it as a way to generate more income, more goods, more services."

Saakashvili it seems is a man who thrives on projects and it's easy to imagine some falling by the wayside, although the country has been transformed since he came to power in 2003.

The Black Sea resort of Batumi has turned from a warlord's paradise into a bustling tourist town where Donald Trump is the latest to invest and the country's parliament building has been moved from its traditional home in the capital Tbilisi to a futuristic new government building in Kutaisi

Yet behind the construction boom Georgia's economic fundamentals remain difficult. Unemployment hovers at 16% and poverty is still widespread. Projects like Lazika sound wonderful but it may have to be seen to be believed.

CNN's Eye On series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries we profile. However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports

@highlight

Plans to build city for 500,000 on marshland in Georgia

@highlight

Called Lazika, government wants it to be economic hub for the region

@highlight

Country's economic climate remains difficult with 16% unemployment

@highlight

City proposed to be special economic zone and operate under UK law(CNN) -- What has been made clear by current events and financial upheavals since 2008 is that the global economy has become truly that -- global.

The near meltdown we experienced a few years ago made it clear that our economic health depended on dependence on each other to do the right thing.

Davos 2013: New year, same old problems?

We are now closer to having an economic community in the best sense of the term -- we work with each other for the benefit of all.

I think we've all become aware of the fact that our cultures and economics are intertwined. It's a complex mosaic that cannot be approached with a simple formula for the correct pattern to emerge. In many ways, we are in unchartered waters.

The good news, in one respect, is that what is done affects us all. There won't be any winners or losers as this is not a competition. It's a time for working together for the best of all involved. Never before has the phrase "we're all in this together" had more resonance or relevance.

Quest: U.S. economy to dominate Davos 2013

My concern is that the negligence of a few will adversely affect the majority. I've long been a believer in the "look at the solution, not the problem" theory. In this case, the solution is clear. We will have to leave borders behind and go for global unity when it comes to financial stability.

Is this possible? Is this a new frontier? Yes and no. There is the fait accompli strategy -- stay under the radar -- and the passive aggressive strategy, acts of terror used to paralyze and so on -- so the bottom line must be balance. Rationality must rule. There are philosophical approaches to economics. However, at this point, we don't so much need philosophy as we need action. Which way to proceed is the question.

Defterios: Why Egypt's transition from its Arab Spring is so painful

You ask about Europe in crisis as an opportunity for investment. I see the world in crisis at the moment. I'm a firm believer that there are always opportunities whether the markets or up or down, but it requires insight and sometimes creativity to see those opportunities. I have no doubt that the balance we need will be achieved, but it won't happen overnight.

Europe is a tapestry that is dense, colorful and deserving of continued longevity and prosperity. There are many pieces that must be carefully fitted together in order to thrive.

Read more: Election season bluster: A Trump call for 'revolution!'

Our challenge is to acknowledge those pieces and to see how they can form a whole that works together well without losing any cultural flavor in the process. It's a combination of preservation along with forward thinking.

Europe is a terrific place for investment. I am proud to have built a great golf course in Scotland after searching throughout Europe for five years for the right location. I've seen many beautiful places.

The future of Europe, as well as the United States, depends on a cohesive global economy. All of us must work toward together toward that very significant common goal.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Donald Trump.

@highlight

Europe is a tapestry. Dense, colorful and deserving of continued longevity and prosperity, writes Trump

@highlight

Trump says he has long been a believer in the "look at the solution, not the problem" theory

@highlight

The future of Europe, as well as the United States, depends on a cohesive global economy(CNN) -- New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's political troubles may reshape the Republican race much more radically than most commentators are yet predicting. To understand why, think of the Republican presidential nomination as a playoff game between two rival leagues. One league is composed of the Republican party's donors and professionals. The other features the party's activists and militants.

In 2012, Mitt Romney triumphed early and totally in League A, and then waited patiently for the nomination as League B stumbled its way through a garish series of impossible candidates. The only plausible player fielded by League B, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, whiffled out before he had properly started the game.

This time, though, League B has attracted plausible talent. Whatever any detractor may say about Ted Cruz and Rand Paul, they are U.S. senators. They may be unelectable to the presidency, but they are not inherently unnominatable, in the way that Donald Trump and Herman Cain were unnominatable.

A better League B puts new pressure on League A -- at exactly the same time when League A seems be sputtering in the way League B sputtered four years ago.

League A's brightest prospect, Christie, looks likely to soon be benched by self-inflicted injuries. There is other talent in League A, of course.

If interested, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush could sweep League A -- but almost one-third of the way through the political cycle, he has yet to indicate that he is interested. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker has fans in League A, as do Florida Sen. Marco Rubio and former vice presidential nominee Paul Ryan.

This abundance of choice suggests that in 2016, unlike 2012, the League A contest will extend for a long time. The League A contenders will have months to run negative ads against each other -- and to remind League B fans why they dislike each League A player: Rubio, for wishing to widen immigration; Ryan, for writing a budget that cut Medicare and Medicaid; Bush, for his last name.

The prospect of a long and bitter battle within League A -- conjoined to improvements in the seriousness and professionalism of League B -- calls into question many of the usual rules of Republican politics.

Old Rule: The winner of the Republican nomination this time is the guy who came second last time. That rule held in every open contest from Ronald Reagan (runner-up in 1976) to Mitt Romney (runner-up in 2008). Not this time: In 2016, for the first time since the 1960s, there is no Republican heir apparent.

Old Rule: The Big Money always wins. From the rejection of Hillary Clinton in 2008 all the way back to the defeat of Edmund Muskie in 1972, Democrats have often preferred insurgents over leadership favorites. Not so Republicans. 2012 spectacularly confirmed the power of the Republican Establishment. But in 2016, the rule is looking wobbly for the first time since 1964.

Old Rule: Electability matters most in Republican presidential primaries. Tea party voters took chances in 2010 and 2012 on many oddball candidates for House and Senate. They played it safe at the presidential level. But many will feel that the defeat of McCain in 2008 and Romney in 2012 discredit the case for the "responsible choice." In 2016, Republican primary voters will for the first time since Barry Goldwater be offered a brace of seemingly plausible, irresponsible choices.

If League A looks as disorganized in 18 months as it does today, will the GOP's primary voters continue to refuse temptation?

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of David Frum.

@highlight

David Frum: Chris Christie, the leader among moderates, may not be a 2016 GOP contender

@highlight

Lack of a clear favorite may open way for GOP activists to pick the nominee, he says

@highlight

Candidates such as Ted Cruz and Rand Paul look more plausible, Frum says

@highlight

Frum: Old rules about how GOP picks a candidate may be thrown aside(CNN) -- Celebrity business magnate Donald Trump endorsed Mitt Romney for president Thursday, telling reporters he will not mount an independent campaign if Romney is the Republican nominee.

Trump, who has repeatedly flirted with the possibility of his own White House bid, revealed his decision in Las Vegas two days before Nevada's Saturday caucuses.

"It's my honor, real honor, to endorse Mitt Romney," Trump said, with Romney and his wife standing nearby. Calling Romney "tough" and "smart," Trump said, "he's not going to continue to allow bad things to happen to this country."

Romney responded by praising Trump for "an extraordinary ability to understand how our economy works and to create jobs" and for being "one of the few who has stood up to say China is cheating" in international trade.

It was unclear whether Trump's decision will have any impact on the Republican race. A Pew survey last month found that 64% of definite and likely GOP voters said an endorsement from the reality television star would make no difference to them.

In the survey, 13% said it would make them more likely to back a candidate, while 20% said it would actually make them less likely.

"Endorsements rarely sway voters," Republican strategist Alex Castellanos said. But "the Trump endorsement undermines (Newt) Gingrich's argument that it is just the Washington establishment that is out to stop him and nominate Romney. Trump is the ultimate outsider."

Trump was not always so positive regarding Romney's record. During an interview on CNN's "State of the Union" in April, Trump criticized Romney for eliminating jobs while in the private sector.

"He'd buy companies. He'd close companies. He'd get rid of jobs," Trump told CNN Chief Political Correspondent Candy Crowley. "I've built a great company. My net worth is many many times Mitt Romney."

Asked what changed since then to bring his endorsement of Romney, Trump told CNN later Thursday that his past comments were "political talk."

"That was a long time prior to my getting to know him," Trump said of Romney. "But I have gotten to know him and he's a terrific guy. I don't know if he really comes out like he really is in person. He's a warm, smart, tough cookie and that's what this country needs. We need somebody that's tough, that will stop China and OPEC and all these other nations from just ripping us up. And i think he can do it."

Perhaps in reference to Trump's earlier comments, Romney said Thursday after thanking Trump for the endorsement, "I spent my life in the private sector, not quite as successful as this guy but successful nonetheless."

News of Trump's endorsement of the Republican front-runner came as the GOP candidates stumped for votes across Nevada and Romney continued to wrestle with fallout from a CNN interview in which the former Massachusetts governor said he wasn't "concerned about the very poor."

Poll: Romney's big lead in Nevada

"We have a safety net" for the very poor, Romney told CNN's Soledad O'Brien on Wednesday. "If it needs repair, I'll fix it. I'm not concerned about the very rich; they're doing just fine. I'm concerned about the very heart of America, the 90%, 95% of Americans right now who are struggling, and I'll continue to take that message across the nation."

Pressed by O'Brien, Romney noted that the poorest Americans have access to food stamps, Medicaid and housing vouchers.

"You can choose where to focus," he said. "You can focus on the rich; that's not my focus. You can focus on the very poor; that's not my focus. My focus is on middle-income Americans."

Romney later insisted that his words were taken out of context and reiterated the full context of the quote, which was meant to stress his focus on the middle class.

"You've got to take the whole sentence, (or else) it sounds very different," he said. "We have a safety net for the poor. ... If there are people that are falling through the cracks, I want to fix that."

The comment, however, sparked a new round of debate over an emerging narrative of Romney as a plutocrat unaware of the needs and concerns of ordinary Americans. It also evoked memories of previous controversial Romney statements, such as when he said he likes firing people who provide poor service.

Gingrich hammers Romney over 'poor' comment

Romney is "reinforcing the image of the national party that is elite (and) out of touch," said Mark McKinnon, a former campaign adviser to George W. Bush and John McCain. "That's why he's having such problems with independent voters. ... Unless the Republicans turn that around, they cannot win this election."

Gingrich, the former House speaker, has blasted Romney for the remark over the past two days, declaring Wednesday that he is "fed up with politicians in either party dividing Americans against each other."

On Thursday, Gingrich said that "we should care about the very poor -- unlike Governor Romney. But I believe that we should care differently than Barack Obama. Both Governor Romney and Barack Obama seem to believe that a 'safety net' is all the poor need. I don't believe that. What the poor need is a trampoline so they can spring up and quit being poor."

Gingrich press secretary fights off Trump questions

Regardless of the extent of Romney's verbal miscue, the former governor is now the clear Republican front-runner.

A national poll released Wednesday showed an immediate benefit for Romney, putting him in first place at 31% compared to 26% for Gingrich, 16% for Santorum and 11% for Paul.

The Gallup daily tracking poll had Gingrich ahead of Romney after the former speaker won the January 21 South Carolina primary.

Romney cemented his status as the GOP leader with an overwhelming victory in Tuesday's Florida primary. Romney won the primary with 46% of the vote, compared with 32% for Gingrich, 13% for Rick Santorum and 7% for Ron Paul, according to the Florida Department of State.

The victory gave Romney all 50 of Florida's convention delegates and, more important, new momentum heading into a series of caucuses and primaries building up to Super Tuesday on March 6, when 10 states will hold nominating contests.

Zakaria: Why I can't wait for the Republican convention

Gingrich's campaign asked the Republican Party on Thursday to allocate the 50 Florida delegates on a proportional basis, rather than the winner-take-all format that gave them to Romney.

In a letter to the Republican National Committee, the Gingrich campaign argued that an RNC rule says early primaries and caucuses must award delegates proportionally. However, party rules say the issue can be addressed only at the August nominating convention in Tampa, Florida.

Santorum also has expressed support for Florida to change its system, but the Florida Republican Party chairman, Lenny Curry, said in a statement Thursday that won't happen.

"Florida was winner-take-all before election day, we were winner-take-all on election day, we will remain winner-take-all," Curry's statement said, adding: "It is a shame when the loser of a contest agrees to the rules before, then cries foul after losing."

CNN's Tom Cohen, Jim Acosta, Paul Steinhauser and Alyssa McLendon contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Trump said he previously criticized Romney before getting to know him

@highlight

The value of a Donald Trump endorsement of Mitt Romney is unclear

@highlight

Rick Santorum agrees with Newt Gingrich that Florida delegates should be proportional

@highlight

The Republican candidates are campaigning in Nevada, which holds its caucuses Saturday(CNN) -- Sarah is selling Sarah. The former vice presidential candidate and half-term governor of Alaska is a commodity of one and a marketing machine. She has created a new politics of profit.

Palin's reanimation on the tea party stage probably means no more than the other intentions she has floated but never executed. She spent almost a year of the last presidential election cycle teasing the far right that she was going to run for president. She never did, but lots of network TV interviews and speculative articles drove up her name recognition and brand identification.

And she's not running again.

Palin is re-running the same show in her home state of Alaska by hinting that she is going to be a candidate for the U.S. Senate. She will not run though. There is too much risk of failure. She's not the near-unknown who was elected governor of Alaska and then quit 2Â½ years into the job. She has a profile, and she intends to use it to make money, which is one commitment she knows how to keep. Running and losing is always bad for business.

Palin is a product. Not a candidate.

Politically, Sarah Palin is an opposite gender version of Donald Trump. She makes grandiloquent statements about candidacies and a future that she knows will never transpire. Trump and Palin lack the courage to run for president but have profitably monetized the speculation about a candidacy. Trump cannot abide the notion of losing, which he knows is inevitable, and he fears what that might do to his image and revenue stream. Palin is self-aware enough to realize that she has neither the intellect nor popular support outside the increasingly unpopular tea party.

So why not make a buck?

In the detritus of the McCain-Palin presidential campaign, the second name emerged as the lead act. The first nine months after her resignation as governor, at the end of July 2009, Palin reportedly earned $12 million, including a book deal, a TV show and speaking fees that were generally more than $100,000 per appearance.

It's not hard to tell whether principle is more important than profit for the failed vice presidential candidate. The tea party has been charged $100,000 for a Palin speech, and, even as she promotes support of charities, a Toronto cancer center a few years ago paid $200,000 for her to attend a fund-raiser, and the event sold out at $200 a seat. Her politics and intelligence might be trifling, but Palin appears to have evolved a very nice business model: Raise the profile to raise the revenue, mostly for herself.

And she's back at it.

Until recently, Palin hasn't been too active, except on social media. She seems to have the entire national tea party population on her Facebook page, but the TV cameras had not been showing up when she gave her bargain-priced speeches. A love spat with Fox News that kept her off the air and then back into the network's arms has left her fans confused. Donations to Sarah PAC fell off. Why was no one paying attention?

Palinians should not fear. She has seen opportunity in the tea party and its plans to beat moderate Republicans in GOP primaries. This is a nearly risk-free approach to increased Sarah-wareness.

The candidate runs, Palin speaks and rallies the initiates. She endorses, and if the campaign fails it is the candidate's fault, not Palin's; she's moved on to help in another race. But the cameras came, reporters took notes, images were broadcast, words were published, and Palin's price went up.

Timing is critical to maximizing opportunity, of course. When the federal government shut down as a consequence of tea party obstinacy, Palin jetted off to Washington to help her ideological consort, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, as they crashed the "Barrycades" at the National World War II Memorial.

Those cameras and bullhorns and journalists were there. Palin had just arrived from New Jersey, where she had endorsed the hopeless tea party candidacy of Steve Lonegan, who lost, soundly, but not without Sarah getting TV time in New York.

In business school, they teach "know your customer." Palin might have attended that class because she is promising to help tea party candidates unseat GOP U.S. senators in South Carolina, Kentucky, Mississippi and Tennessee in 2014. The Sarah Promoting Sarah tour begins, however, several months ahead at the Iowa Faith and Freedom Foundation dinner on November 9.

In what is almost certainly a coincidence of timing, just three days later, Palin's new book goes on sale for the holidays. She has not written about the Constitution or her understanding of Paul Revere in the Revolutionary War; Palin, instead, is doing the much more challenging work of preventing further harm to Christmas. "Good Tidings and Great Joy: Protecting the Heart of Christmas," can already be pre-ordered. Get yours now. Or just send a check to Palin. She might not understand politics or policy, but Palin knows money.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James C. Moore.

@highlight

James Moore: Sarah Palin's revival on the tea party stage increases her brand recognition

@highlight

Moore: She's a marketing machine, taking every opportunity to raise her profile

@highlight

Moore: Palin promotes tea party candidates in safe districts, never runs for office

@highlight

He says her re-emergence comes just before release of her book defending Christmas(CNN) -- Greece is hoping a derelict airport on the outskirts of Athens -- one which has sparked a keen contest among international investors -- will help solve its debt woes.

Hellinikon airport, the sale of which initially piqued the interest of U.S. business tycoon Donald Trump, could be vital to reversing the fortunes of the Greek economy.

Greece is awaiting a financial lifeline of 31.5 billion euros [$40.3 billion] from international creditors, following the approval of a 13.5 billion euro austerity package by Greek lawmakers earlier this month.

Alongside aid packages and austerity measures, Greece is selling off assets from gas reserves to sewage works as it tries to gain control of its 340 billion euro pile of debt.

And while the potential sale of Greece's coveted islands caught early -- and controversial -- headlines, hopes are now resting on the dilapidated airport as a potential economic savior.

Four property developers -- Elbit Cochin Island Ltd, Lamda Development, London and Regional Properties and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment -- have been shortlisted by the Hellenic Republic Assets Development Fund (HRADF) to win exclusive rights to the site. The bidders did not respond or were unavailable for immediate comment.

A fund spokesman declined to disclose the airport's potential purchase price but says redeveloping the land will cost around 6 billion euros.

The fund has projected a redevelopment of the site will bolster Greece's gross domestic product, which has contracted by 39.5 billion euros in the past five years to 171.4 billion euros, by 0.3% over the next ten years.

Greece's vast, derelict, symbol of hope

Hellinikon airport was once Greece's flagship terminal and hub for international travel, but has been abandoned since its closure in 2001. It stretches across 6.2 million square meters -- making it roughly twice as big as New York's Central Park -- and it represents a huge commercial project for investors.

The Greek government has put the full plot of land up for sale in an effort to raise revenues, spur growth and create jobs. The site is the largest open regeneration project in Europe and could create up to 9,000 jobs immediately, according to the HRADF.

But 6 billion euros is a significant sum to inject into a country whose financial crisis has left the eurozone teetering on break-up.

"The Greek financial system is in trouble and it's very difficult to raise this kind of money in the private sector," the fund spokesman told CNN. "Also, the international banking system has not been prepared to take that kind of risk on Greece up to now."

Theofanis Exadaktylos, an academic from the Greek Politics Specialist Group and a lecturer at the University of Surrey, says the sale of Hellinikon airport is a "priority" for the government and would boost the local economy.

He told CNN: "It could provide space for tourism, housing or entertainment... It's a big, big scale investment."

Greece has valued its sell-able assets at 50 billion euros, with 55% of it in real estate, including Hellinikon.

Europe's most indebted nation has set a target to privatize 25 billion euros of these assets by 2020.

Proposals from foreign investors are first considered by a board of directors and overseen by representatives from Greece's international creditors, known as the "troika."

A shortlist is then drawn up and ultimately, the highest bidder wins.

Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his coalition government are hoping that privatization will increase competitiveness and make up for cuts in the public sector, particularly in jobs.

Could Greece's coveted islands be up for sale?

Some eurozone politicians have advocated the country sell off more than just its infrastructure projects. Greece's islands, which draw tourist dollars and showcase the country's beauty, have previously been flagged as potential investment gold.

In October Frank Schaeffler, a German member of Parliament and a member of Chancellor Angela Merkel's coalition, told CNN Samaras himself said Greece is willing to sell its uninhabited islands. Samaras' office did not respond to the comment.

But while the idea might seem unpalatable, Exadaktylos believes leasing the islands -- if such a program was properly managed and debated -- wouldn't be a bad idea.

Exadaktylos noted shipping tycoon Aristotle Onassis had leased the island of Skorpios in the Ionian Sea, where he married Jackie O, previously the wife of U.S. president John F Kennedy.

Exadaktylos added leases for islands "may last for 99 years and then possibly there is an option to renew, but investors do not own the island, so there is no issue of state sovereignty."

Meanwhile, the HRDAF continues to try and draw investors into the country, soothing nervousness around the country's two bailouts, a hefty debt restructuring and two elections.

@highlight

Greece is selling off assets from gas reserves to sewage works as it seeks to contain its debt woes

@highlight

The fund has projected a redevelopment of the site will bolster Greece's gross domestic product

@highlight

Hellinikon airport was once Greece's flagship terminal and hub for international travel(CNN) -- Rick Perry is really starting to annoy me.

When Rick Perry announced he was running for president back on August 13, to tell you the truth I got a little excited.

Now I know what you're thinking -- James you are a big Democrat, why on earth would you be excited about Perry running for president? And as Ricky used to tell Lucy -- I got some 'splainin to do.

This was my thinking: Perry would get in and he would be a major force. After all he was governor of the state of Texas, great hair, been around politics for a while.

He was the bona fide conservative complete with a pedigree to take on Romney. A giant fight to the death would ensue and they would bludgeon each other half to death -- you get the picture.

Honestly, I enjoy nothing more than two Republicans going after each other. Secondly, when politics is interesting it is actually good for me. In case you haven't noticed, I'm a cable television commentator -- the more interesting the campaign, the more coverage, the more I'm on TV -- you get the drift.

Also, as some of you may be aware of, I've been known to give a speech or two in return for remuneration. The people that plan these sorts of things generally hire more political speakers when politics is interesting and in turn I'll make more money and then John Boehner and Eric Cantor will start referring to me as a job creator.

With the way things are shaping up now, the event planners might be more inclined to take a motivational speaker, a magician, or a square dance troop. Hey Rick -- you are costing me airtime and money.

Third, there is a dirty little secret about political people that I'm going to share with you. These political people include operatives, politicians, volunteers, bloviators, journalists, pundits, columnists, staffers -- we actually like politics and campaigns.

Maybe you, like me, are a baseball fan. If you are, you want seven games because you actually like baseball. The same goes for politics -- if you really love it, you hope for a good race that goes on and you enjoy watching people who are skilled at doing this.

It is literally painful to watch Rick Perry as a candidate. The case could be made that Rick Perry is the worst debater to ever run for president.

As far as I know he can't even give a good speech. His appearance before the uber-right-winged Values Voters Summit was universally trashed.

Not only can he not give an interview, he can't even roll out his stupid flat tax plan. He steps all over it by saying, "Oh by the way, it's optional anyway." He has managed to couple the flat tax with the IRS bureaucracy in one sentence. Way to go Rick.

I'll be blunt with all you Perry supporters, it's time to butter your guy because he's toast. Every day it's a new dumb thing. From birtherism, to convoluted tax policy, to inarticulate attacks, to woeful ignorance and even stupidity on foreign policy (Pakistani country? Please), to placing his wife under such stress that she is lashing out at everything around her.

Not only is Rick Perry utterly incapable of running for president, he can't run his state, and in fact can't meet the basic requirement for any politician -- he can't even run his mouth.

As if he hasn't made a big enough fool of himself, he decides to go out and have lunch with Donald Trump and falls for the birther strategy. Good God, can this guy do anything? I guess I should be fair to him, he has shown that he can get the same people he gave contracts to as governor of Texas to contribute to his campaign. Wow, what an achievement.

To tell you the truth, it's gotten so bad people in Louisiana are actually starting to make Texas jokes.

If this thing gets any worse the people in Mississippi will be making Texas jokes -- then you've really hit rock bottom.

Rick, you have managed to embarrass yourself and irritate the hell out of me. So I guess you are good at something after all.

PS: See where the media is reporting that Perry is "retooling" his campaign. I think their problem is with the Indian, not the arrow.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Carville.

@highlight

James Carville says Rick Perry is starting to get on his nerves

@highlight

He hoped Perry would give Romney a good fight, prolong interest in the race

@highlight

Instead Perry has been a weak candidate, with poor performances, Carville says

@highlight

Carville: Perry had lunch with Donald Trump and fell for the birther strategy -- a mistake(CNN) -- Former Miss California USA Carrie Prejean wants to set the record straight.

Carrie Prejean says pageant officials wanted her to make appearances for Playboy and a gay movie premiere.

Prejean garnered widespread criticism when she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question posed to her during the Miss USA pageant.

Prejean was allowed to keep her Miss California USA crown in May, despite a controversy over topless photos and missed appearances. However, state pageant Executive Director Keith Lewis took her crown on Wednesday, saying it was a business decision based solely on "contract violations."

Prejean offered her side of the story when she spoke with CNN's Larry King on Friday. She also discussed whether she would sue to reclaim her title and her future plans. The following is an edited version of the interview.

Larry King: You've had a couple of days now, Carrie, to think it all over and it's sunk in. What are your feelings today?

Carrie Prejean: I'm definitely a little bit surprised just by the way that I found out about this. You know, I was called by the media to inform me that I was fired.

King: Are you saying the pageant didn't call you?

Prejean: No. I haven't received any phone calls. In fact, my lawyer found out from the media, as well, before we received any contact. I still have not, to this day, received any contact from Mr. Lewis.

King: Now, since they were so supportive of you at the time and after the Trump announcement, what do you make of the fact that they didn't call you?

Prejean: Well, I think Mr. Trump was definitely in the middle. And I think that, you know, he has only heard one side.

Ultimately, at the end of the day, you have to think about, Are you going to release Mr. Keith Lewis or are you going to release Carrie Prejean? I think that they had to release the beauty queen at the end of the day.

King: How do you respond to (charges from Lewis)?

Prejean: Well, Larry, all I can tell you was this basically comes down to the answer that I gave the night of the pageant. As you can see, Mr. Lewis does not agree with the stance that I took. I think he's very angry. I think he's hurt. He said in a previous statement that he's deeply saddened and hurt that -- what Carrie Prejean believes in -- a marriage is between a man and a woman. Politics and religion have no play in the Miss California family.

My question is, then why was the question asked at the pageant in the first place? If politics has no role in the pageant, why was I given this question?

It was a hidden personal agenda that judge No. 8 asked, and I think that they were not ready for my answer that I gave.

King: Let's say they were upset by your remarks. They didn't like your answer. Why didn't they just tell Donald Trump, we're unhappy and let's pick the runner-up or whatever?

Prejean: He absolutely did. I mean Keith Lewis held a press conference in Los Angeles and didn't invite me to the press conference and, you know, awarded the first runner up as the new ambassador of California. That is just undermining me and undermining his own titleholder from day one.  Watch how e-mails between Prejean, Lewis may have contributed to firing »

As far as the other appearances, I've had some inappropriate appearances that Keith Lewis has asked me to do. And I'm sure you're aware of them already -- one of them being Playboy; another one being a reality show which is being filmed in Costa Rica. So had I said yes to these, I mean, I would have been out of the country.

Again, Playboy, I couldn't believe. I was completely shocked that he would even pass this along to me. Another one was a gay movie premiere that he wanted me to attend incognito. He actually said he wanted me to wear a hat and go in disguise and attend this movie premiere promoting gay marriage and then come out with a statement the next day saying that Carrie Prejean attended a gay movie premiere.

It just doesn't seem right, Larry, does it?

King: Are you now sorry you even entered. Or, in retrospect, has this been a boom for you publicity-wise?

Prejean: You know, this isn't something that I signed up for, Larry. I simply entered in a pageant, the Miss California USA contest, and I gave an answer that a lot of people weren't expecting.

The bottom line, I took a stand, and I think I am now being punished for the answer that I gave. This isn't about contracts. This isn't about me missing out on appearances.

If you want to ask Keith Lewis any appearances that I have made prior to the Miss California U.S. pageant, I will guarantee you, Larry, he will not even -- he can't even tell you an appearance that he -- he scheduled for me.

This isn't about appearances. This isn't about a breach of contract. This is about Keith Lewis not agreeing with the stance that I took on saving traditional marriage. And from day one, he wanted me out.

King: Well, are you going to sue, Carrie?

Prejean: That's -- you know, that's something that is not something that I want to -- I want to do. I think that what's going on is wrong. And I think that there is definitely some information that is missing. And I know that sooner or later, the truth will come out and people will recognize here who's right and who's wrong.

King: What are your lawyers telling you to do or advising you to do?

Prejean: You know, that's up to my lawyers to determine whether or not they think that there will be a lawsuit involved. But that's not up to me, at this point.

King: What are you going to do right now, career-wise?

Prejean: Well, first of all, I want to thank the millions of viewers. I know you have so many viewers on your show, Larry. Thank you so much for your support. Thank you to all the Californians who have supported me, who backed me, who sent me thousands of letters and e-mails. I just want to thank you so much for your prayers, for your support.

And I know that when God is for you, no one can be against you. So thank you.

King: Can you tell us what you're going to do, though?

Prejean: I'm not sure. Definitely some -- a lot of offers -- opportunities have come my way, a lot of offers.

I'm just really excited. I feel relieved. I feel just so blessed and so honored to have represented the state of California. And I'm ready to move on with my life and just be where God leads me.

@highlight

Carrie Prejean says she learned she lost Miss California USA crown from media

@highlight

Prejean: Pageant director asked me to make "inappropriate appearances"

@highlight

Pageant officials say Prejean's firing due to "contract violations"

@highlight

Prejean's response to question on same-sex marriage raised eyebrowsLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- A second lingerie-modeling photo of Miss California USA Carrie Prejean has appeared after she assured pageant officials this week that the earlier shot was the only one she had appeared in.

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean may lose her crown because of some semi-nude photos she appeared in.

The Web site that published the first picture published a second one Wednesday. It had already promised to "slowly roll out" more photos.

After the appearance of the first photo, the possibility that racier images could emerge prompted "closed-door meetings" Tuesday to consider stripping Prejean of her beauty queen title, pageant spokesman Ron Neal said.

Although Neal said Prejean "breached her contract" by keeping the semi-nude photo or photos a secret, the only pictures published so far appear about as revealing as the bikini Prejean wore in the pageant's swimsuit competition.

"We have been told by Carrie Prejean there are no other photos other than the one circulating in existence. She should know better than anyone," Miss California USA Director Keith Lewis said Wednesday before the latest photo was released.  Watch reaction to racy photos »

Pageant officials were not immediately available for comment on the new picture.

The 21-year-old Miss USA contestant has been the center of controversy since she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question on the national pageant stage last month. She finished as runner-up to Miss USA.

In a statement given to CNN on Tuesday, Prejean said the photos -- and she did use the plural -- were being used in a "vicious and mean-spirited" effort to silence her for "defending traditional marriage."

While she vowed to "continue to support and defend marriage as the honorable institution it is," Prejean may be doing so without the Miss California USA title.

State pageant officials met Tuesday with lawyers and representatives of Donald Trump, who owns the international competition, to consider whether they had grounds to take the crown away from Prejean, according to Neal.

"When you compete for Miss California, you're supposed to disclose whether you posed for nude or semi-nude photos, because it's grounds for disqualification," he said.

CNN obtained a copy of the pageant contract Prejean signed last year, in which she agreed that the discovery of semi-nude photos could mean disqualification.

The first photo made public shows Prejean -- who said she was 17 at the time -- wearing pink panties and no top. She is turned away from the camera, with her arm hiding most of her breast. The second photo is essentially the same, but Prejean is looking over her opposite shoulder.

It was unclear whether pageant officials would consider that a semi-nude photo, in light of their standard requirement that contestants parade across stage wearing a bikini that arguably shows more skin.

Ahead of the second photo being published, Nik Richie -- of TheDirty.com -- said he was upgrading his Web site's servers to handle the flood of traffic he expects will come after he posts the additional photos.

"I will slowly roll these out," Richie said.

The Web site appeared to be overwhelmed by traffic early Thursday. CNN tried to access it, but could not.

"We'll see what happens with those and we want to know who's releasing them," Neal said.

Shanna Moakler, the co-executive director of the Miss California USA organization, will meet with Tami Farrell, the runner-up for the title, "to discuss the possible next steps," Neal said.

Prejean defended the photos, which she said were taken when she was a teenager aspiring to be a Victoria's Secret model.

"I am a Christian, and I am a model," she said. "Models pose for pictures, including lingerie and swimwear photos."

She said the photos "have been released surreptitiously to a tabloid Web site that openly mocks me for my Christian faith."

"I am not perfect, and I will never claim to be," she said. "But these attacks on me and others who speak in defense of traditional marriage are intolerant and offensive. While we may not agree on every issue, we should show respect for others' opinions and not try to silence them through vicious and mean-spirited attacks."

Her publicist, Melany Ethridge, confirmed a comment she gave to celebrity Web site TMZ in which she said Prejean was 17 when she posed for the photos, hoping they would land her a modeling job.

"In her naivete, an agent convinced her to pose for this photo to submit to a lingerie company, claiming they could make her the next Victoria's Secret model," Ethridge told TMZ. "She has since learned what a lie that was, and what a mistake it was to have the photo taken."

Prejean announced last week that she would star in a new $1.5 million ad campaign supporting "opposite marriage" (marriage between a man and a woman) funded by the National Organization for Marriage.

"Marriage is good," Prejean said at a news conference announcing the ad campaign. "There is something special about unions of husband and wife. Unless we bring men and women together, children will not have mothers and fathers."

CNN's Aileen Martinez contributed to this report.

@highlight

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean says she posed for one semi-nude photo

@highlight

A Web site says it has more photos of Prejean, and plans to slowly roll them out

@highlight

Prejean is in the news for her response to question about same-sex marriageWashington (CNN)Votes won't be cast until 2016, but the next White House occupant will have an extremely busy 2015.

A flurry of official entrances into the race could come this spring -- with all eyes on Hillary Clinton on the Democratic side, and Republicans looking at a wide-open field that includes more than a dozen potentially viable candidates.

And much of the action will take place in the first two states to vote: Iowa and New Hampshire.

Many of the events on 2015's calendar will be familiar: Conservatives will flock to major conferences. The Iowa State Fair will draw a huge crowd. The first debates will be major events. But presidential election cycles are "almost unique," said David Oman, a former Iowa GOP co-chairman and the chief of staff to two of the state's Republican governors.

The 2016 cycle, Oman said, "is well underway. It's almost all under the radar." Many contenders visited Iowa to campaign for Republican Senate candidate Joni Ernst in 2014 -- and did some outreach and organizing while they were there, he said.

"There are a lot of phone calls that are being made among Iowa activists, and certainly into the state -- some from the candidates or would-be candidates, and others from people who are helping them," he said.

"We've been in the somewhat invisible primary -- the activist organizing stage, etc., for some time now," said Terry Shumaker, a New Hampshire Democrat who co-chaired Bill Clinton's campaigns and is backing Hillary Clinton in 2016.

Here's a look at some of the key events and dates on 2015's calendar:

Jan. 15: An unofficial Clinton decision. That's the date pro-Clinton aides and confidants have long said that if she's not running, she'll make that clear -- at least privately. Otherwise, Democrats could be in a tough position, with the field effectively frozen and no clear alternative emerging in the early polls. Outside infrastructure like the group Ready for Hillary are also making plans into 2015, but no other candidate has any comparable backing.

Jan. 23-24: The Rubio confab. Florida Sen. Marco Rubio will host his fourth annual "Team Marco" gathering at the Delano Hotel on Miami's South Beach -- this time, with a huge decision to make: Is he running for president?

The meeting will give Rubio a chance to take stock of how deeply former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush's own steps into the race will cut into the senator's home-state donor base -- including right-leaning Cuban-Americans who could have been angered by President Barack Obama's move to ease tensions with the communist country. It's also crucial in putting together the infrastructure Rubio would need for a national campaign.

Jan. 24: Iowa Freedom Summit. The inaugural event organized by Rep. Steve King and the conservative group Citizens United will feature at least eight prospective GOP presidential candidates who will speak with grassroots activists from across the state.

On the guest list so far: New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, Texas Gov. Rick Perry, businessman Ben Carson and businesswoman Carly Fiorina, and Donald Trump. Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker has said he might attend, as well.

Feb. 25-28: CPAC. GOP presidential hopefuls will flock to the annual Conservative Political Action Conference -- known as just "CPAC" -- to court their party's ideological grassroots.

The conference has also offered a window into the debates riling conservatives. In 2011, the participation of the pro-gay rights group GOProud and the invitation of then-Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, who had called for a "truce" on social issues, sparked boycotts from conservatives who are focused on just those policies. The conference has also been criticized for taking a libertarian turn, with Texas Rep. Ron Paul winning its 2010 and 2011 straw polls.

It could be a particularly important barometer for Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, who won the 2014 CPAC straw poll and has since sought to increase Republicans' outreach to minority voters and smooth over his divisions with the GOP establishment.

March 9-13: Selma march's 50th anniversary. Commemorating the Selma-to-Montgomery voting rights march, and the police beatings of protesters it included, has long drawn presidents and White House hopefuls to Alabama. This year's 50th anniversary will be no different.

March 19: Clinton's last scheduled paid speech. The lone heavyweight in the Democratic presidential field is scheduled to deliver a paid speech to the American Camp Association on March 19 -- the last one currently on her calendar.

The date itself isn't all that meaningful: Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign plans are unlikely to be stalled by the American Camp Association. She could call off the event, or send Bill Clinton instead. Or, she could still schedule more paid speeches, especially if she doesn't want to enter the race until the spring. Still, those looking for signs of Clinton's plans will watch to see whether the current timing of her last paid speech moves in either direction.

Early August: Iowa State Fair. It's a must-visit for presidential candidates looking to mix and mingle with a broad swath of voters. The Des Moines Register, Iowa's most important newspaper, will have what Oman called a "massive presence" at the state fair -- including the Register Political Soapbox, where candidates will make appearances, deliver stump speeches and take questions. The 11-day fair will see visits from a candidate a day, and sometimes more.

August: Ames Straw Poll. For a non-binding gut check of conservatives, this summer-before-the-caucuses tradition gets a lot of attention. Thousands of Iowans -- as well as candidates, political operatives and journalists -- have historically descended on the Iowa State University campus, where they're courted by campaigns that see the event as an early test of their organizational strength in the state that kicks off the nominating process.

However, the straw poll hasn't predicted much in recent years. In 2011, Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann won, with Texas Rep. Ron Paul landing a close second -- though both had faded by the time the elections rolled around. In 2007, Mitt Romney won the straw poll, but former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee won the actual Iowa caucuses.

There's also the question of whether the straw poll will continue in its previous form. Some conservative groups have pushed to eliminate it, or at least make major changes. Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad commented in 2012 that the straw poll has "outlived its usefulness." Still, Iowa GOP operatives say it'll likely take place in some form in 2015.

The straw poll was held in early August 2011. The date hasn't yet been set for 2015, but it'd likely come shortly after the state fair.

Fall: State party dinners. Most campaigns' top donors will come from out of the early-voting states, but they'll need as much of the local party infrastructure in their corners as possible. In Iowa, for example, Republicans will flock to the state GOP's fall dinner. "That's where the activists and donors show up all at one time. By that time you better have your campaign rolling and your organization well underway," Oman said.

In New Hampshire, the state Democratic Party's annual Jefferson-Jackson dinner and its 100 Club dinner would be big opportunities for candidates not named Hillary Clinton. "If you're less well known than Hillary Clinton, scoring a speaking engagement at one of those two big dinners, which are populated by activists, would be a big deal for anybody," Shumaker said.

Iowa's 99 counties and New Hampshire's 10 counties will also offer candidates lower-profile speaking opportunities.

Late 2015: The debates. National Republicans have tried to winnow what during the 2012 election cycle seemed like an unending string of debates. But the debates will still happen, they'll be televised nationally, and they'll present candidates with opportunities to grab media attention -- for better or, as Texas Gov. Rick Perry learned when he forgot the name of the third federal agency he wanted to abolish during one debate, for worse.

All year: Politics & Eggs. The New England Council and the New Hampshire Institute of Politics & Political Library at Saint Anselm College co-host these regular Granite State events. Candidates typically speak for about 15 minutes, and then take questions. Dates for 2015 appearances haven't yet been announced -- but a spate of presidential contenders are all but certain to be added to the schedule in the coming months.

"That is a real tradition. Virtually everybody that has run for president has spoken at one or more of those over the years," Shumaker said. "My guess is that will really heat up after the new year, and that's a great way to meet a crowd that's not a typical political crowd -- it's bipartisan, heavy on business people and education and non-profit types and students."

@highlight

The coming year will be jam-packed with can't-miss events for 2016 presidential hopefuls

@highlight

The key events include activists' conventions, state party dinners and even state fairs

@highlight

Many of the most important events will take place in Iowa and New Hampshire(CNN) -- Health care was a huge topic during Wednesday's presidential debate. President Barack Obama said the repeal of Obamacare would cause seniors' prescription drug payments to rise.

"We were actually able to lower prescription drug costs for seniors by an average of $600," Obama said during his debate with GOP challenger Mitt Romney. He went on to say that if Obamacare were repealed, "those seniors right away are going to be paying $600 more in prescription care."

The facts:

Nearly 5.4 million Medicare recipients saved more than $4.1 billion on prescription drugs as a result of the Affordable Care Act, Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said in an August news release.

"Seniors in the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the 'donut hole' have saved an average of $768," she said.

The law helps make Medicare prescription drug coverage more affordable.

Complete coverage of CNN's Fact Checks

People with Medicare can pay a monthly premium for outpatient prescription drug coverage. In 2010, enrollees paid 100% of their drug costs up to $310. For costs above that figure, they paid 25% of the total until that total reached $2,800.

Once that figure had been reached, beneficiaries were responsible for the full cost of their drugs until they had spent $4,550 -- after which, their share usually dropped to 5%. That coverage gap is referred to as the "donut hole."

The Affordable Care Act changed the formula.

In 2010, Medicare recipients who hit the prescription drug donut hole received a $250 rebate.

Last year, people with Medicare who reached the donut hole got a 50 percent discount on covered brand-name drugs and a discount on generic drugs.

Recipients will pay less and less until 2020, when they will be responsible for only 25% of the cost of their drugs until they reach the yearly out-of-pocket spending limit, according to a 2010 posting on healthcare.gov by Jonathan Blum, director for the Centers of Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Conclusion: Seniors, on average, would pay the $600 cited by Obama -- and then some, according to Medicare figures, if the Affordable Care Act was not in place.

Fact Check: Job creation

Fact Check: Donald Trump

Fact Check: Oil and gas production

Fact Check: Green energy

@highlight

The candidates sparred over health care claims

@highlight

Obama: "We were able to lower prescription drug cost for seniors"

@highlight

Obama: Repealing health care law would hurt those savings(CNN) -- Top Democrats in the House are giving no credence to those looking for a real scandal over a lewd picture that appeared on the Twitter account of New York Congressman Anthony Weiner.

California's Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, stuck to her party's main legislative focus Thursday -- "Medicare, Medicare, Medicare." When questioned as to whether the situation was turning into a distraction, Pelosi replied "That's your problem. If that's what's important to you, then that's what you'll report. That's not what's important to us."

Weiner has insisted that he did not post the photo, which shows the lower body of a man wearing underwear. The image appeared briefly on the New York representative's Twitter account Friday night. Weiner says he doesn't know where the picture came from and he believes his account was hacked as a prank. He told reporters Wednesday that he has hired a private firm to investigate.

Weiner told CNN Thursday that he intends to "get back to work doing the job that I'm paid to do."

House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer, D-Maryland, said he wanted to go over the facts before offering comments. He said it was a serious issue, and that it is important to maintain privacy.

On the other side of the spectrum, Donald Trump, who recently considered a presidential run, weighed in on the issue. He told CNN's Piers Morgan that Weiner is either "incompetent" or "lying."

The conservative blogger who broke the story has been calling for a full investigation of what he describes as either the hacking of a congressman's account or something Weiner wants to hide.

Andrew Breitbart runs the conservative website biggovernment.com, which first reported the photo on Weiner's Twitter account. He has told CNN that the case warrants further inquiry by the FBI and U.S. Capitol Police.

It was Breitbart who posted the heavily edited and incomplete video of a speech by U.S. Agriculture Department employee Shirley Sherrod last year. The version he placed online suggested that she refused to offer her full help to a white farmer and Sherrod was forced to resign.

A full version of the speech showed that Sherrod had assisted the farmer, who later came forward and credited Sherrod with helping save his farm.

Sherrod has since filed a civil suit, accusing Breitbart of defamation, false light and infliction of emotional distress, according to a statement issued by the law firm representing her.

Breitbart.com is also named as a co-defendant in a lawsuit filed by the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, or ACORN, over secretly recorded videos that proved deeply embarrassing to the agency. The video shows two conservative activists, posing as a pimp and prostitute, seeking advice from ACORN workers on setting up a brothel.

The videos, which were posted on Breitbart's website, prompted a groundswell of action against the organization, including a limited investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice and a slashing of funds from the federal government and several states.

@highlight

Democratic legislators dismiss questions over Twitter photo

@highlight

Nancy Pelosi: "If that's what's important to you, that's what you'll report"

@highlight

Donald Trump says Rep. Anthony Weiner is either "incompetent" or "lying"

@highlight

Conservative blogger Andrew Breitbart wants an investigation(CNN) -- Zhang Xin is an example of true grit success. She rose from the faceless assembly line of a Beijing factory to a property magnate richer than Donald Trump and Oprah.

Her company, SOHO China, literally changed the landscape of Beijing and Shanghai over the past two decades. Forbes magazine has listed her family's net worth at $3.6 billion.

And she's not stopping there. In a private transaction (not related to her company business), her family and the Safra banking family of Brazil just bought a 40% stake in the iconic GM building in New York City -- the building that houses the flagship Apple store on Fifth Avenue.

Zhang recently sat down with CNN's Pauline Chiou to talk about everything from her Beijing childhood to the volatile property market and how her 14-year old son tried to get a job at McDonald's.

Failure is part of the puzzle

CNN: Did you come across a lot of bumps in the road and a lot of failures?

Zhang Xin: Every day. I mean, I think that's just life. You will always bump into difficulties, challenges and problems. It appears to be that we seem to be doing quite well, but as it is now, we're still having challenges every day. So I think that's just nothing unique. That's just life.

Pivot and dribble around politics

CNN: You moved from residential real estate to commercial and now you're focusing on commercial. Why did you do that, especially when we see new home prices still rising?

ZX: Residential development has become very political. Government policies ...are against any prices going up because this is a very social issue.

The government comes out with policies that deal one day with this side [of the issue] another day with this side [of the issue]. We said, "Let's get out of this area. Yeah, let's move on to somewhere we can really exercise our skills as a developer."

I think the policies are so distorted. Like someone who's sick, you've taken so much medicine that you've lost the sense of which one works and which one doesn't. That's a little bit like the real estate market in China.

Grab the opportunities

CNN: On the Forbes' recent list of 24 self-made female billionaires, there are five women from China, one from Hong Kong. What is it about China and the women of your generation that allows them to achieve that highest level?

ZX: Women of our generation went through the Cultural Revolution, went through hardship, went through coming from nowhere. Suddenly, we see China's been given so many amazing opportunities. So women just seized the opportunity. I think in terms of coming from a low base, coming from nowhere, we're all equal.

In China, there are a lot of problems but also there are a lot of opportunities. Precisely because there are so many problems, things are not established; therefore, there are opportunities.

Have a life outside of work

CNN: You're a mother of two boys. You're a wife. How do you do the work-life balance?

ZX: I'm very, very focused on my children. In fact, I'm very religious about having breakfast with them every morning, having dinner with them every evening, and spend all the weekends with them that I don't work. So as long as I'm not traveling, I'm always with them and I go to their soccer and tennis matches. After dinner we'd just sit together and do homework with my children because they need help. I love doing that. It also makes me realize the world is so much wider than just your business world.

@highlight

Worth $3.6 billion, Zhang Xin is the world's seventh richest self-made woman

@highlight

Xin runs China's largest real estate developer

@highlight

She rose from assembly line of a Beijing factory to property magnate

@highlight

Her family partly owns a 40% stake in NYC's GM buildingWhile President Barack Obama discussed the need to fix the nation's immigration problems during his inauguration speech last week, Sister Cathy Buster is already doing something about it.

She was all smiles at Wednesday's grand opening of Casa San Juan Bosco, a "green" affordable housing development that will give Florida farmworkers unprecedented access to a safe and healthy place to live.

"I dream a lot, and people all think I'm nuts when I tell them what I intend to do to help," said Buster, a member of the Sisters of Providence of Saint Mary of the Woods Congregation. "But when they see events like today and realize I can help make it happen, this is wonderful."

Hired farmworkers continue to be one of the most economically disadvantaged groups in the United States, according to the USDA.

Studies show they also face higher than average occupational hazards as well as a poorer health status overall. Many live in substandard housing without access to refrigeration or safe water. Typical homes are filled with mold or pests. Few have safe spaces for workers' children to play.  Buster vowed to change that trend.

"Health is a major issue where many of these families currently live" -- sets of trailers, she said. "The water alone is a real problem.  They aren't on city water, and the health department has to go out there two and three times a week to test it because it hasn't always been safe for them to use."

Trailer living isn't cheap, either. Many are charged $35 per person per day, she said. With two and three families living there, the rent costs more than many luxury apartments. "It's outrageous," Buster said.

The housing situation became much worse in 2004.  That's when Hurricane Charley ripped through Arcadia, Florida. Working with Catholic Charities to provide food and clothing to these workers immediately after the storm, Buster said she saw firsthand how devastating it was for the community.

"The little bit they had, they lost, and their deplorable living conditions got even worse," she said. "The trailers that did survive, they put together. They had blankets for roofs and cardboard for walls.  Some 800 farmworkers were displaced."

Baby boomer nuns help revolutionize health care

Buster said she had never written a grant application in her life, but she knew she would need to raise the money, so she learned.

She did know how to find the right location for better housing for the workers.  That's because at  age  60, she went back to school to earn her real estate license.  She had been handling all the real estate transactions for the Diocese of Venice since 1999, but then Hurricane Charley struck.  That's when Catholic Charities hired her away to help the district recover from the major amount of devastation.  Building Casa San Juan Bosco became their first project.

It took 7½ years to gather enough money through donations and successful federal and local grant applications, but she eventually raised the $10 million to build the affordable housing. "It was providence," she said.

She got the land from a family of real estate agents who have been in Arcadia for more than 100 years.

The property owner, Buster said, told people she was "like a dog with a bone" and called her "the Donald Trump of the Sisters of Providence."

"He's right, I did talk him out of a lot of land," Buster said, laughing.  "It's about 20 acres."

The land will help house more than 50 families in single-family three- and four-bedroom homes with two bathrooms.  The homes come equipped with dishwashers, a range, a refrigerator, a microwave, a garbage disposal and a full-sized washer and dryer.   They are sturdy homes built to stand up to 200 mph winds.

"I was taking an inspector through who said they would be the safest residences in the county," Buster said.  "They'll also be some of the nicest many of these families have ever seen."

"I was taking a family on a tour, and one of the young women who had her grandmother and 2-year-old in tow said to them, 'Ooh, this is a real house,' " Buster said. "When she saw the washer and dryer she said, 'How much is this going to cost to do your laundry?' I told her it won't cost anything. 'But does it take quarters?' she asked. I told her there are no slot machines. These are yours to use. She was blown away.  I can't wait to see people's faces when they move in."

The property has parks and a playing field big enough for a soccer game.  "Another family touring the grounds asked,  'Are the children allowed to play out here?' I told them they can do anything they want. They are safe here," Buster said.

The grounds will also house a community center with a computer lab, a space that will offer English classes, monthly health check-ups and health classes.  There will be an after-school program and on-site day care.

The homes will rent for about 30% of a family's income.  To be eligible to live in them, at least 50% of the farm laborer's income for the previous 12 months must be from a farm laborer occupation, and each member of the family must have U.S. citizenship or proof that they have been legally admitted for permanent residence.

Programs like this are a huge help to the health of the community, according to University of Arizona economist George Frisvold, who specializes in agricultural issues.  He co-wrote a study that found that "adverse living conditions significantly increase the probability of gastrointestinal, respiratory and muscular problems." It also adds to a worker's stress level, which can lead to depression and other mental health complications.

"Even the more conservative economists who have looked at these kind of measures say to reduce the negative effects of child poverty, a project like this ends up paying for itself in the long run," Frisvold said. "You basically eliminate a lot of costs to society that they would face down the road if there was no intervention.  Improve the conditions in which they live by changing cramped and unhealthy settings for healthy ones -- and those families will tend to do much better."

"Having access to healthy housing is a very difficult problem for a lot of farmworkers. That really is something that is bellow the radar," said Don Villarejo, who works as a consultant on migrant health issues and has won several awards.

"This development is what I'd call a wonderful kind of experiment that I believe will result in a safe, affordable and decent housing model -- one that I'd like to see a much larger commitment to from the government, philanthropy and the private sector. It's crucial to the health and well-being of these workers."

Buster would agree. She already dreams of expanding. She wants to raise more money to build a kitchen that she has already designed in the community center. Down the road, she'd like to build affordable senior housing for low-income residents on the property.

"These families have worked and struggled all their lives," she said.  "We can help them realize their dream, which is the American dream, I want to provide as many people as I can with a safe place to call home."

@highlight

Hired farmworkers are one of the most economically disadvantaged U.S. groups

@highlight

Health studies show they face poorer health status overall

@highlight

A new multimillion dollar housing development aims to help Florida farm workersNEW YORK (CNN) -- Who said LEGO is just child's play?

The New Orleans Public Library asked Nathan Sawaya to build this sculpture to celebrate the city's rebirth.

Since CNN spoke with LEGO artist Nathan Sawaya a year ago, his popularity has skyrocketed. Just check out his clientele.

Donald Trump recently asked Sawaya to create a replica of the new hotel he's building in Dubai. With 10 days to complete it, and only architectural renderings to work from, Sawaya toiled away in his Manhattan studio snapping tiny bricks together, barely sleeping, to finish the curvy 10-foot statue in time for its unveiling.

His work has also created a, well ... buzz with entertainers.

Sawaya built a 4-foot bumblebee for Fall Out Boy's Pete Wentz to offer his new bride, Ashlee Simpson, as a wedding gift. Stephen Colbert wanted a piece of the action too. The comedian invited Sawaya on his show last August to present a life-size LEGO Colbert replica.

"He loved it," says Sawaya. "He called it actual art!"

While being recognized as an artist -- rather than a hobbyist -- hasn't been easy for Sawaya, some of his more evocative pieces appear to be breaking down barriers.  See photos of Sawaya's work »

"I think we've been able to introduce the concept that [Sawaya's sculptures] are not just toys," said Rosa Portell, curator at the Stamford Museum & Nature Center in Connecticut, where Sawaya's exhibition "The Art of The Brick" is on display through the summer. "These are actually artworks done by an artist who just happens to work in a medium with which [people] are familiar."

"The Art of The Brick," one of two of Sawaya's collections touring North America, features "Red," "Blue" and "Yellow," three life-size pieces depicting human forms in startling poses that have brought Sawaya much attention and praise.   Watch the LEGO artist at work »

The other exhibit on display -- at the Art and Culture Center of Hollywood, Florida -- shows 20 pieces he built over the past year. Sawaya says one of those pieces, "Grasp," was inspired by his frustration with people who have doubted his ability to make a full-time career out of LEGO sculpting.

It seems the joke's on them. Sawaya, a former attorney who said, "The worst day in the art studio is still better than the best day in the law firm," couldn't be busier, with commissions pouring in from all around the world. CNN's Shanon Cook caught up with him to see how things were going.

CNN: How does being a LEGO artist pay now?

Sawaya: Fortunately, being an artist doesn't mean starving ... as some might think. Luckily, my work is in high demand, and the sculptures are selling for tens of thousands of dollars.

CNN: Do you hope that LEGO becomes "art," treasured for centuries?

Sawaya: One would have to be awfully arrogant to assume their work would be treasured for ages. Right now, I hope my work captivates people for as long as I can keep their attention.

CNN: Was it at all intimidating being asked by Donald Trump -- a builder himself -- to whip up a replica of his Dubai project?

Sawaya: I have yet to be intimidated by a project. I believe I can create anything! I'm always excited when celebrities request commissions. It reminds me that everyone has played with LEGO at some time in their lives. Being commissioned by Mr. Trump was another fantastic opportunity to grab people's attention.

CNN: What's the most unusual request you've received?

Sawaya: I get hundreds of commission inquiries every month. Some wacky, some fun. The most unusual might be when I was asked to build the large bumblebee as a wedding gift from a rocker boy to his pop princess bride.

CNN: That doesn't sound particularly romantic ...

Sawaya: What's more romantic than a giant bumblebee?! (laughs) I think they have a little history there about bumblebees, so I was happy to make it happen for them.

CNN: Why do you think people ask you to build such wacky things out of LEGO?

Sawaya: I think people have passion for different things in their lives and they want to display that passion in a unique way. There are very few people in the world who can say they own a larger-than-life piece of art made out of a toy!

CNN: What's the most frustrating aspect of your work?

Sawaya: Not having enough time to create everything I want to. Right now, I have more ideas than I have time.

CNN: Yes, your work seems to require you to do a lot of traveling. How do you find time to work on these pieces, or work on the next exhibition?

Sawaya: It's been really tough. As I'm becoming more and more in demand, it's hard to find time to actually just stay in the studio, and that's why it's so important to me that when I am in the studio, I'm just working at all hours.

CNN: Last time we spoke, you said your fingers get very sore from snapping LEGO Bricks together. How are your hands doing?

Sawaya: My hands are doing just fine, thanks. They're a little rough around the edges, but that's part of the job.

CNN: Do you think they're going to fall off at some point?

Sawaya: Hands are very important to me in everything I do. I'm a creator with my hands more than anything, and so I actually did a sculpture called "Hands," which is a large gray figure who's lost his hands. They're just piles of LEGO Brick. It's Nathan Sawaya's nightmare!

@highlight

Nathan Sawaya makes his living as a LEGO artist

@highlight

Sawaya has two exhibitions of his sculptures, did piece for Donald Trump

@highlight

"I have more ideas than I have time," the artist says(CNN) -- President Barack Obama poked fun at everyone -- from his wife to Donald Trump -- during the annual White House Correspondents dinner, before ending his speech with a tribute to journalists who brave deadly conditions to get a story.

No one was safe from the president's zings on Saturday night, including Republican presidential challengers.

Days after releasing his long-form birth certificate to refute claims he wasn't born in the United States, the president began his address by showing what he called his birth video.

But rather than footage of a baby Barack being born in Hawaii, the clip was from Disney's "The Lion King," showing the grand unveiling of the baby Simba in Africa.

The speech was before a crowd of about 2,600 at the packed Washington Hilton ballroom.

In addition to journalists, other attendees included Chief of Staff Bill Daley, Defense Secretary Robert Gates and Speaker of the House John Boehner.

Actors, fashion icons and musicians also attended, helping set the event apart from a typical late-night dinner among politicos in Georgetown.

Hollywood was represented by the likes of "Hangover" star Zach Galifianakis, "Glee" standout Jane Lynch, Jon Hamm of "Mad Men" fame, among others.

Steven Tyler and Michael Stipe, frontmen for legendary rock groups Aerosmith and R.E.M. respectively, also mingled with the guests, as did fashion designers Diane von Furstenberg and Michael Kors.

Obama then singled out an unsmiling Trump and credited him with making hard decisions -- such as firing Gary Busey over Meatloaf on an episode of "The Celebrity Apprentice" -- and succeeding in his push for the president to release his long-form birth certificate.

"Now, he can focus on more important matters like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?" Obama said, referring to Neil Armstrong's 1969 walk on the moon, the alleged UFO crash in New Mexico and the deaths of rappers Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur.

The president also jokingly suggested several Republicans who have signalled they might challenge him in 2012 were not born in America.

He revealed that Rep. Michele Bachmann came from Canada, talked about the full name of Minnesota Gov. Tim "Hosni" Pawlenty, and hinted that the first language of former Utah governor, Jon Huntsman, is Chinese.

Huntsman ended his tenure as Obama's appointed ambassador to China on Saturday.

"And then there's a vicious rumor floating around that could really hurt Mitt Romney," Obama said. "I hear he passed universal health care when he was governor of Massachusetts."

Not even his wife, first lady Michelle Obama, was immune to ribbing. Alluding to her push to promote healthy eating, the president said the two of them made a great team at the recent Easter egg roll: "I'd give candy ... to the kids, and she'd snatch them right back out of their hands."

The president concluded his presentation on a serious note with a tribute to the tornado-ravaged areas in the Southeast and to journalists who have been "threatened, arrested, beaten, attacked and in some cases even killed" on the job.

"No one should be silenced," Obama said. "That's what you do. And at its best, that's what journalism is."

The president was followed on stage by Seth Meyers, the head writer and "Weekend Update" anchor for "Saturday Night Live."

Meyers poked fun at news outlets such as C-SPAN, MSNBC, Fox News, CNN and The New York Times.  He also

focused on the 2012 Republican presidential field -- a roster he said "sounds like season 13 of 'Dancing With the Stars,' and not the stars (but) the dancers."

As is tradition, the dinner's featured speaker didn't let the commander-in-chief off unscathed.

Meyers said the one candidate who could "definitely beat" the incumbent was the "2008 Barack Obama. You would have loved him."

The White House Correspondents' Association dinner was Obama's third as president. It has been a ritual in Washington since 1920, when it was first held to boost communication between the press and the president, according to the association's website.

It was only open to men until 1962, when President John F. Kennedy said he would not attend unless women were invited.

@highlight

White House Correspondents' dinner is held Saturday in Washington

@highlight

Obama shows a clip from "The Lion King," suggesting it is his "birth video"

@highlight

He also pokes fun at Donald Trump and  Republican challengers

@highlight

Speaker Seth Meyers says the "2008 Barack Obama" could beat the current edition(CNN) -- From the first moment I spoke with Ted Cruz, it was obvious that the former solicitor general for Texas had a bright future in politics.

My first interview with Cruz, at the Southern Republican Leadership Conference in 2010, came less than a month after Congress passed the Affordable Care Act.

Cruz, who was not quite 40 at the time and still contemplating his political future, already had the ACA firmly in his sights.

"We are facing from Washington the greatest threat to our liberty we have ever seen," he said, "I think we have to fight on every front to repeal Obamacare."

Cruz didn't want to shy away from a court fight, but predicted that conservatives would have to win with voters more than judges to succeed.

Less than a year later, Cruz would throw his hat in the ring to succeed Kay Bailey Hutchison in the Senate and continue his fight from Washington rather than Texas.

After only seven months in town, Cruz's political talents are obvious. His drive to push the Republican Party into a budget showdown over Obamacare reflects his passionate opposition to the ACA and a shrewd assessment of the temperature of the grassroots base. He's also a staunch opponent of the Gang of Eight immigration reform bill, a position based first on his principles but clearly consonant with many rank-and-file Republicans.

The immigration bill pitted him against another talented Republican newcomer, Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, one of its authors and vocal proponents, although both are allied on the strategy to overturn Obamacare.

Cruz's rapid ascent has rallied conservative activists and has many speculating over his potential impact on the 2016 presidential race. In fact, enough people are speculating on it that Donald Trump and Ann Coulter have been moved to cast doubts on his eligibility to run. (Cruz was born in Canada, but his mother is a native of Delaware and a U.S. citizen, which would qualify Cruz as native-born under the broadly accepted definition of the term.)

Opinion: Ted Cruz can be president, probably

Cruz has recently begun to tour Iowa, usually a good signal of presidential ambition, while Slate reported this week that social conservatives in the state are pushing to get Cruz into the 2016 race.

No one doubts that Cruz has a bright future in the Republican Party, but that doesn't mean the future is now.

Cruz, like Rubio and Rand Paul, have only barely arrived on the national stage and are many years younger than their sell-by date. None of the three has held executive office yet. Both Paul and Cruz have only won one election in their career. All three have made an extraordinary impact as freshmen senators, but they are still mainly untested outside of a single electoral cycle.

Additionally, Republicans have more options: By the time 2015 rolls around and candidates have to commit to a run, a number of GOP governors will be staking out their ground as well.

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie will almost certainly use his considerable media presence and blunt style to launch the next phase of his career. Scott Walker has to win a re-election bid in Wisconsin in 2014; a win will re-establish his fighting credentials on budgets and reform.

Mike Pence got some attention early in the 2012 cycle as a potential presidential contender, but decided to go home to Indiana to add executive office to his already-impressive conservative credentials. Susana Martinez, who like Cruz was given a featured-speaker slot at the national GOP convention last year, should sail to a 2014 re-election in New Mexico, with approval ratings that have never dropped below 60%.

This wealth of proven executive talent, most from governors who have courted the conservative grassroots, makes the Beltway bids from freshmen senators look even more like long shots.

That's not to say that we may not see a President Ted Cruz in the future. With his talent and political savvy and his potential for staying power, no one should count him out in the long run. Like Paul and Rubio, though, his potential presidential future may be 2020 or 2024.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Edward Morrissey.

@highlight

Edward Morrissey: Ted Cruz has bright future with GOP, some say he's mulling presidential run

@highlight

He says that would be great -- in perhaps 2020; same with young comers Rand Paul, Rubio

@highlight

He says there are far more seasoned possible candidates in GOP governor ranks

@highlight

Morrissey: Paul, Cruz, Rubio could well be presidents, but should wait till 2020, 2024(CNN) -- Sunday's Teen Choice Awards found no fault with "The Fault In Our Stars."

The June movie release was a big winner at the 2014 ceremony, beating out "American Hustle," "Heaven Is For Real," "Million Dollar Arm" and "Veronica Mars" for the choice movie drama surfboard trophy.

"Fault" stars Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort also walked away with a huge surfboard haul, winning the Teen Choice Awards for movie drama actress (Woodley), movie drama actor (Elgort), and for movie liplock. Their co-star Nat Wolff got a surfboard of his own for choice movie scene-stealer, and he shared yet another surfboard with Woodley and Elgort for choice movie chemistry.

Film was far from the only category of the night, as the awards ceremony honored teen favorites in movies, TV, music and on the Web. Here's what else you should know about the 2014 Teen Choice Awards:

1. Donald Sutherland remains the best

"Hunger Games" actor Donald Sutherland won the Teen Choice Award for best movie villain, and he arrived on stage to show exactly why.

"You voted me most villainous?" Sutherland, who plays the calculating President Snow in the "Hunger Games" series, asked the roaring crowd. "I've been married for 42 years. My wife asked me to tell you that she agreed with you. I, on the other hand, do not. I think, on the contrary, that I am very nice. Sweet-tempered, and generous."

So generous, Sutherland continued, that he'd even brought the crowd "souvenirs" from the "Hunger Games'" Panem. And with that, he opened a bag to toss out berries at the audience -- which in the "Hunger Games" world tend to be poisonous -- with the warning, "I wouldn't eat them if I were you."

2. Selena Gomez gets personal

When Selena Gomez accepted her surfboard for the ultimate choice award -- a top prize that in the past has gone out to stars like Justin Timberlake, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Britney Spears -- she surprised the audience with an unexpectedly emotional speech.

"I have to be honest, especially this month, I have to thank you guys, because you remind me -- amidst the stuff that we deal with personally -- you remind me of what's important," Gomez said to her fans. "And that's giving, and loving and caring about each other. I'm not trying to preach ... it's just that you guys make me better."

There was one more thing, Gomez continued: "I want to thank my mom so much, because she's the greatest human being in the world," Gomez said. "She's strong, and she's given up her life for me, and she's so beautiful. I want all of you to love your mom and give her everything, because she's incredible."

3. Ansel Elgort is a breakout star

On top of the other honors 20-year-old Elgort won on Sunday, the actor also snagged the choice movie breakout star surfboard.

"The Fault In Our Stars," adapted from John Green's novel about a pair of teen cancer patients who fall in love, is just Elgort's third credited movie role, following 2014's other hit, "Divergent." If you don't know the actor's name yet, the Teen Choice Awards is telling you to get used to it.

4. The Kardashians still have a young audience

With E!'s "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" now in its ninth season, you might assume that teens in 2014 would be more interested in watching the newest Vine star than the Kardashian family's escapades. But in reality, they're watching both.

On Sunday, Kim Kardashian joined her younger sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner to accept the surfboard for choice reality show, trumping "Total Divas," "The Real Husbands of Hollywood," "Dance Moms" and "Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey."

Also on the TV side, ABC Family's "Pretty Little Liars" and The CW's "The Vampire Diaries" were two of the other big winners. "Pretty Little Liars" won choice TV drama as well as some acting awards for its cast, while "Vampire Diaries" won best sci-fi/fantasy TV series and a few surfboards for leads like Nina Dobrev and Ian Somerhalder. (For choice comedy, it was "The Big Bang Theory" all the way.)

5. "Divergent" and "The Hunger Games" are still loved, too

You might think after looking at the movie winners that "The Fault In Our Stars" has replaced franchises like "Divergent" and "The Hunger Games" in the hearts of teens, but those two movies were able to land a few wins, as well.

"Divergent," which also stars "Fault" actress Shailene Woodley, picked up the choice action movie title, while Woodley was named choice action movie actress as well.

"The Hunger Games: Catching Fire," the second movie in the four-film "Hunger Games" franchise, won the choice sci-fi/fantasy movie category and snagged a surfboard for star Jennifer Lawrence, who was named choice sci-fi/fantasy movie actress.

@highlight

"The Fault In Our Stars" was a big winner at the 2014 Teen Choice Awards

@highlight

The ceremony honors teen favorites in movies, TV, music and the Web

@highlight

On TV, big winners were the Kardashians, "Pretty Little Liars" and "The Vampire Diaries"

@highlight

Selena Gomez and Donald Sutherland had memorable speechesHong Kong (CNN) -- In CNN's Hong Kong newsroom, right next to my desk, there's a "douche jar."

Inspired by the TV series "New Girl," the "douche jar" was placed in our cubicle cluster to prevent general douchebaggery or acts of egregious self-promotion. It works like this -- if you say or do something like a douchebag, you put a fistful of local currency into the jar.

In case you're not familiar with the term, the Urban Dictionary offers up this definition. The douchebag "has an inflated sense of self-worth, compounded by a lack of social grace and self-awareness. He behaves inappropriately in public, yet is completely ignorant to how pathetic he appears to others."

In the newsroom, the jar is usually low on cash. Most of its contributions are made in jest by a colleague out to channel a self-absorbed jerk.

But on Twitter, the "douche jar" is always full.

There are tweets that claim to be BREAKING NEWS, when they are not. There are tweets that overuse #hashtags. And tweets that are whiny and excessively personal.

The general douchebaggery across Twitter is so profound it's prompted one user to launch "Klouchebag" -- a Klout-like site that generates your douche score. For the uninitiated, Klout uses analytics to determine a user's influence across social networks.

Is Twitter slowing down?

On Klouchebag, The ever-#winning Charlie Sheen registers as "a bit of a douchebag" with a score of 50.

For the record, I registered a score of 46 or "quite noisy" on the KB scale.

But instead of hanging my head in shame, I'll blame the medium. Twitter is, after all, is the one-to-many platform where you can sound off on anything. A bit of pride and pretense are bound to spill forth.

Well, maybe more than a bit.

According to a recent study by researchers at Carnegie Mellon, MIT and Georgia Tech, only around one third of a Twitter feed is actually valued by users. In a survey based on 43,000 responses to find out what people like and loathe about microblog posts, they found that followers described only 36% of the rated tweets as "Worth Reading." They thought 25% were "Not Worth Reading" and were neutral about the remainder.

As for what works and doesn't work on the microblog? According to the study, "informative" leads the reasons for liking a tweet. "Boring" dominates the reasons for disliking -- scoring higher than "arrogant" and "mean" combined.

So on Twitter, it's worse to be a bore than a douche.

Perhaps that can explain the popularity of faux Twitter accounts that celebrate the self-love and pomposity of certain figures in popular culture.

There's "Death Star PR," the official mouthpiece for the Galactic Empire. Sample tweet: "It's a beautiful day to Force choke a few idiots."

And "The Relevant Organs" -- a Twitter feed that satirizes a Chinese communist party official with gems like: "We're confused. What part of intrusive policing, rabid anchormen, pandering websites and fenqing douchery isn't soft power genius?"

"Not Tilda Swinton" had been issuing regular missives to her "Tildren" on how to achieve the actress's mysterious aura and oneness with nature with tweeted tales like: "I once waded the entire length of the Nile. I lost an arm to a hippo, but won it back in a game of Charades. I am stronger for it."

Sadly, the fake Twitter account has been retired to keep the joke from getting stale.

It's a pity. Sometimes, we need a little douchebaggery in our lives to have a laugh at the self-centeredness of others and, thanks to downward comparison, feel better about ourselves.

I went back to Klouchebag to see how I stacked up against Donald Trump on Twitter. I outscored him by a solid 32 points.

And there's another 20 bucks in the douche jar.

@highlight

CNN's Kristie Lu Stout says there's no shortage of douchebaggery on Twitter

@highlight

Klouchebag calculates Twitter users' douche score to see how they rank

@highlight

Recent survey finds only one third of a Twitter feed is actually valued by usersLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Miss California USA Carrie Prejean has assured pageant officials that a lingerie modeling photo published online this week is the only one she posed for, the state pageant director said.

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean may lose her crown because of some semi-nude photos she appeared in.

But the Web site that published the first picture said it has several more that it will "slowly roll out" starting Wednesday afternoon.

The possibility that racier images could emerge prompted "closed-door meetings" Tuesday to consider stripping Prejean of her beauty queen title, pageant spokesman Ron Neal said.

Although Neal said Prejean "breached her contract" by keeping the semi-nude photo or photos a secret, the only picture published so far appears about as revealing as the bikini Prejean wore in the pageant's swimsuit competition.

"We have been told by Carrie Prejean there are no other photos other than the one circulating in existence. She should know better than anyone," Miss California USA Director Keith Lewis said Wednesday.

The 21-year-old Miss USA contestant has been the center of controversy since she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question on the national pageant stage last month. She finished as runner-up to Miss USA.

In a statement given to CNN Tuesday, Prejean said the photos -- and she did use the plural -- were being used in a "vicious and mean-spirited" effort to silence her for "defending traditional marriage."

While she vowed to "continue to support and defend marriage as the honorable institution it is," Prejean may be doing so without the Miss California USA title.

State pageant officials met Tuesday with lawyers and representatives of Donald Trump, who owns the international competition, to consider if they had grounds to take the crown away from Prejean, according to Neal.

"When you compete for Miss California, you're supposed to disclose whether you posed for nude or semi-nude photos because it's grounds for disqualification," he said.

CNN obtained a copy of the pageant contract Prejean signed last year in which she agreed that the discovery of semi-nude photos could mean disqualification.

The only photo made public shows Prejean -- who said she was 17 at the time -- wearing pink panties and no top. She is turned away from the camera, with her arm hiding most of her breast.

It was unclear if pageant officials would consider this a semi-nude photo, in light of their standard requirement that contestants parade across stage wearing a bikini that arguably shows more bare skin.

But the other shoe -- or other garment -- may be yet to drop.

Nik Richie -- of TheDirty.com -- said he has waited for an upgrade of his Web site's servers to handle the flood of traffic he expects will come after he posts the additional photos.

"I will slowly roll these out," Richie said.

The next image will likely be published Wednesday afternoon, he said.

"We'll see what happens with those and we want to know who's releasing them," Neal said.

Shanna Moakler, the co-executive director of the Miss California USA organization, will meet with Tami Farrell, the runner-up for the title, "to discuss the possible next steps," Neal said.

Prejean defended the photos, which she said were taken when she was a teenager aspiring to be a Victoria's Secret model.

"I am a Christian, and I am a model," she said. "Models pose for pictures, including lingerie and swimwear photos."

She said the photos "have been released surreptitiously to a tabloid Web site that openly mocks me for my Christian faith."

"I am not perfect, and I will never claim to be," she said. "But these attacks on me and others who speak in defense of traditional marriage are intolerant and offensive. While we may not agree on every issue, we should show respect for others' opinions and not try to silence them through vicious and mean-spirited attacks."

Her publicist, Melany Ethridge, confirmed a comment she gave to celebrity Web site TMZ in which she said Prejean was just 17 when she posed for the photos, hoping they would land her a modeling job.

"In her naivete, an agent convinced her to pose for this photo to submit to a lingerie company, claiming they could make her the next Victoria's Secret model," Ethridge told TMZ. "She has since learned what a lie that was, and what a mistake it was to have the photo taken."

Prejean announced last week that she would star in a new $1.5 million ad campaign supporting what she termed "opposite marriage" (marriage between a man and a woman) funded by the National Organization for Marriage.

"Marriage is good," Prejean said at a news conference announcing the ad campaign. "There is something special about unions of husband and wife. Unless we bring men and women together, children will not have mothers and fathers."

CNN's Aileen Martinez contributed to this report.

@highlight

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean says she posed for one semi-nude photo

@highlight

A Web site says it has more photos of Prejean, and plans to slowly roll them out

@highlight

Prejean is in the news for her response to question about same-sex marriageToronto (CNN) -- Jenna Talackova, the 23-year-old woman who forced Donald Trump and his Miss Universe Canada pageant to end its ban on transgender contestants, fell short of the national title Saturday night at the pageant in Toronto.

The crown went to Sahar Biniaz, an Indian-born, Iranian-raised actress from Vancouver. Biniaz, 26, will represent Canada at the Miss Universe pageant in December, according to the Miss Universe Canada website.

Talackova refused to speak to the media after the competition, but Biniaz said Talackova had congratulated her on her win backstage. Biniaz added that she admired Talackova for having the courage to compete in the pageant.

In a CNN interview hours before showtime, the 6-foot-1 Talackova seemed a bit weary, as the spotlight was still squarely on her gender transformation.

From beauty pageants to college sports, transgender people break barriers

"Like I always say, my family didn't understand, so why would I expect anybody else to understand? And then they got to know me and they loved me," Talackova said.

But on Sunday, she told CNN the pageant was "an amazing experience."

Asked if she thought her transgender status affected the judges' decision, she said, "Who's to say? I think I worked very hard. All of us ladies worked so hard and we gave it our best shot. The judges see something in those top five, and that's fine. I wouldn't have changed anything."

She didn't walk away from the pageant empty-handed. In addition to finishing among the top 12 semi-finalists, Talackova tied with three other contestants for the title of Miss Congeniality.

"I'm a little tired, but I'm not down," she said Sunday. "For a couple of seconds, I was a little bummed out, but after, like, a couple of minutes I was just extremely happy. I was so proud of myself. I made sure I did my best performance."

How much should gender matter?

Talackova was born a boy with the name Walter, but she said she felt more like a girl by age 4. By 14, Talackova convinced her family that she should start taking steps to physically become a woman, she said. She began hormone therapy as a teenager and had gender reassignment surgery four years ago, when she was 19.

It was then she pursued her dream of competing in a pageant. But her gender history meant she was disqualified from the Miss Universe Canada competition for not being a "natural born woman."

Talackova then hired women's rights lawyer Gloria Allred, and the pageant's co-owner, Donald Trump, was left with no choice but to change the rules and let Talackova compete.

Donald Trump vs. Gloria Allred: Transgender beauty battle

"I'm not interested in having arguments with Donald Trump. I'm here to focus on Jenna and what she has won," Allred told CNN after Thursday's preliminary competition. "And it's been extremely important, and it really is a civil rights victory. And she has earned the right to claim that victory."

Talackova said Sunday she's never told her story fully on her own terms, "but I let (people) know a lot about myself thus far. I did come out with my statement, and that's that people should embrace their individuality and follow their dreams, like I did."

Talackova said earlier her entry in the competition is about equality, even if some believe pageants are demeaning.

"The power that you get for having the crown -- you can inspire so many people," she said. "So if I have to walk in a bikini for that, I will."

CNN's Holly Yan contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Jenna Talackova says the pageant was "an amazing experience"

@highlight

Talackova was born a boy named Walter

@highlight

She fought to have Miss Universe organization open competition

@highlight

Sahar Biniaz, 26, is the new Miss Universe CanadaWhile the issue of President Barack Obama's birth has long been settled, and it's a moot point anyway since he's in his second term in office, there remain some people who won't be convinced.

Just ask members of Congress, who even this summer are encountering so-called "birthers" at town hall meetings.

With Ted Cruz, there is no conspiracy. He wasn't born in the United States. But that hasn't stopped the junior Texas senator from courting a possible presidential bid.

The dynamic young senator has traveled to Iowa and other early primary states. If his moves toward a candidacy become more serious, they're sure to spark first a debate about his conservative politics, but also that recurring debate about whether a "natural-born citizen" can be born outside the United States.

Birther-in-chief Donald Trump, who appeared to be running singularly on that issue in 2011, was more restrained when he was asked if Canadian-born Cruz was eligible to be president. "Perhaps not," Trump told ABC News on Sunday.

"I don't know the circumstances. I heard somebody told me he was born in Canada.  That's really his thing," said Trump, who could face Cruz in a GOP primary if both men follow through with runs they appear to be teasing.

Another Cruz trip to Iowa raises 2016 speculation

Cruz seems to think the facts are on his side.

"My mother was born in Wilmington, Delaware. She's a U.S. citizen, so I'm a U.S. citizen," Cruz told ABC in July. "I'm not going to engage in a legal debate. The facts are clear," he added. "I can tell you where I was born and who my parents were. And then as a legal matter, others can worry about that. I'm not going to engage."

TIME: Cruz talks about Obama, spats with fellow Republicans

There is precedent for people born outside the United States making credible runs for the presidency. George Romney, Mitt Romney's father, was born in Mexico to Mormon missionaries. He ran for president in 1968.

For all the ink spilled about Obama's provenance -- Hawaii, people -- it was actually John McCain in the 2008 presidential contest who was born outside the United States.

McCain's father, an admiral, was stationed in the Panama Canal Zone.

Democrats didn't make an issue of McCain's birthright to run, however. In fact, Democratic candidates Obama and then-Sen. Hillary Clinton sponsored a non-binding resolution in the spring of 2008 declaring that McCain was a natural-born citizen.

This is all the U.S. Constitution has to say about the qualifications to be president:

"No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States."

That's pretty clear. Only a 35-year-old (or older) "natural-born citizen" can be president.  But it turns out not be that clear. Who is a "natural-born citizen?"

Citizen scholarship falls on the side of McCain. He had two American citizen parents and one was working for the U.S. government when he was born in Panama.

Cruz doesn't check all those boxes. His father, a preacher who has delivered stem-winding speeches of his own, has since become an American. But at the time of Ted's birth in Canada, he was a Cuban émigré working for an oil company. His mother, however, hails from Delaware.

Ted Cruz's father makes fiery anti-Obama speech

There is a 50-page report prepared for lawmakers by the Congressional Research Service.

You can read the whole thing here.

The key paragraph in that lawerly paper reads this way:

"The weight of legal and historical authority indicates that the term "natural born" citizen would mean a person who is entitled to U.S. citizenship "by birth" or "at birth," either by being born "in" the United States and under its jurisdiction, even those born to alien parents; by being born abroad to U.S. citizen-parents; or by being born in other situations meeting legal requirements for U.S. citizenship "at birth."

It does not specifically deal with the issue of someone born outside the United States to one American parent. But if Cruz could claim citizenship at birth, according to the argument, he could claim to be natural born.

The natural-born citizen requirement was put into the Constitution, according to the congressional report, to ward against aristocracy coming to America and setting up a new kingdom.

There has been discussion of doing away with the requirement altogether.

Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah introduced the Equal Right to Govern Amendment in July 2003. It would allow immigrants who had been naturalized for at least 20 years to run for president. But it has gone exactly nowhere.

Opinion: Ted Cruz can be president, probably

@highlight

Possible 2016 presidential candidate Ted Cruz's birth circumstances raise eligibility questions

@highlight

Cruz was born in Canada to U.S. citizen mother and Cuban father

@highlight

Birther-in-chief Donald Trump raised question of Cruz's eligibility in weekend appearance

@highlight

Question hinges on the definition of what is a "natural-born" citizen(EW.com) -- After 10 years, Discovery Channel is ending "American Chopper."

The Teutuls are going to build their final bikes on the network next month.

One of Discovery's most popular programs, "American Chopper" helped pioneer the "docusoap" reality genre and inspired a surge of gear-head shows. "Chopper's" run will conclude with the previously announced four-way bike build-off special, titled "The Revenge," airing live from Las Vegas on December 11.

'American Chopper' plans live four-way bike building competition

"After 10 years and 233 episodes of incredible, riveting reality television, 'American Chopper' will be ending its run," says Eileen O'Neill, group president, Discovery and TLC Networks. "This series was one of the very first family-based reality programs on television. Special thanks to Pilgrim Studios for over a decade of great producing. The Teutuls have given us really innovative bike builds and real drama since 2002. We wish both Orange County Choppers and Paul Junior Designs the best."

The series had a simple format â€” a father and son building custom motorcycles amid frequent infighting. Yet nothing about the show's colorful history has been straightforward. "American Chopper" has changed networks, switched names and was previously canceled, only to rise again.

"I have mixed emotions," executive producer Craig Piligian tells EW.com. "It's had a great run. We had a lot of ups and downs. There's been so much that's happened to this family over the last 10 years. We've seen them grow to a huge motorcycle shop. We've seen them fight bitterly. We've seen them sue each other. And recently we've seen them come together to open up a new business. I think the show has come full circle."

"American Chopper" premiered as a Discovery Channel special in 2002, then launched as a regular series a few months later. In 2008, Discovery moved the show to its sister channel TLC. A couple years passed, then behind-the-scenes warring between Senior and Junior prompted TLC to outright cancel the show.

Donald Trump gives 'American Chopper' duo advice

Parties soon made up, and in 2010 the company re-ordered the program as "American Chopper: Junior vs. Senior." The series later reverted to its original title and switched back to Discovery.

"This was the first family docusoap," Piligian says. "They put on display, for all to see, what really happens in a tight family business, warts and all. I'm really proud they were so open and honest."

Paul Senior and Junior's spirited attitudes helped make the show engaging for fans, but could also make things difficult behind the scenes. At one point when shooting the current final season, Piligian fired Junior and kicked him off the set.

"It's a very tumultuous relationship, not only between the father and son, but between us as well," Piligian says. "Junior and I would have it out, and at one point awhile back, I said, 'We're done with you.'" The two reconciled and Junior returned to work shortly thereafter.

Given the show's on-again, off-again history, one has to wonder: Is this really the end? Could "American Chopper" rise again in a year or two?

"American Chopper was canceled before and we came back even stronger," Piligian says. "It's been a resilient, powerful show. Right now they're telling me it's canceled. I can only comment: 'Who knows what the future holds.'"

See the full story at EW.com.

CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly

© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

Discovery Channel is ending "American Chopper"

@highlight

The Teutuls will build their final bikes on the network next month

@highlight

It's had a tumultuous 10 years on the air

@highlight

Given its history, there's speculation it might not be canceled for good(CNN) -- Barack Obama would make a great stand-up comic, not because he's the funniest president ever but because he uses jokes the same way many of us comedians do: as a weapon.

Traditionally, the (intentionally) funny lines by our presidents have had one thing in common: They were self-deprecating. Sure, some presidents have used jokes to take jabs at their opponents, but not to the extent of Obama.

During his tenure, he has increasingly unleashed biting comedic barbs against his critics and political adversaries. These jokes are intended to do more than simply entertain you. They have an agenda.

Obama's humor is often delivered the way a comedian dealing with a heckler would do it. He tries to undermine his opponents with it and get the crowd -- in this case the public -- on his side. I can assure you that having a crowd laugh at your critic/heckler is not only effective in dominating them, it's also very satisfying.

Let's look at some of the more typical self-deprecating jokes made by presidents at past White House Correspondents' Dinners, where press and president unleash their biting wits on one another. In 1988, Ronald Reagan joked about his advanced age by commenting that his staff had claimed that "preparing me for a press conference was like reinventing the wheel. Not true. I was around when the wheel was invented, and it was easier."

President Clinton, at the 2000 Correspondents' Dinner, mentioned that he was a fan of that night's comedian, Jay Leno: "Because, together, we give hope to gray-haired, chunky baby boomers everywhere."

And then there was President George W. Bush. There are no words to describe my gratitude for all the material he provided comedians. But he could also be intentionally funny at his own expense.

Gallery: President Obama: A year in facial expressions

At the 2001 Correspondents' Dinner, Bush took out a book written about his verbal gaffes and reviewed them with the audience. One of the funniest moments was regarding his famous grammatically incorrect line "Rarely is the question asked: 'Is our children learning?' " Bush then comically explained, "If they would read it closely, they would see I'm using the transitive plural tense, so the word 'is' are correct."

Now, let's look at Obama. Yes, he has often used self-deprecating humor.

For example, at the 2011 White House Correspondents' Dinner, he joked, "Some people now suggest that I'm too professorial. And I'd like to address that head-on by assigning all of you some reading that will help you draw your own conclusions."

But here's where Obama has increasingly taken presidential comedy to a new place. At that same event, Obama took on two critics point-blank, using cutting humor. The first was the thin-skinned Donald Trump, who at that time was considering running for president against Obama in 2012.

Obama made three sharply barbed jokes at Trump's expense. One was about how trivial Trump's decisions on "The Apprentice" were when compared with that of the POTUS. The second ridiculed Trump for what he would allegedly do to the White House if he won: turn it into a garish-looking hotel and spa.

And Obama mocked Trump's obsession with the "birther" issue by joking that, next, "The Donald" would focus on topics like "Did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?"

Obama then took on actor Matt Damon, who had been publicly critical of the president. Obama quipped, "Matt Damon said he was disappointed in my performance. Well, Matt, I just saw 'The Adjustment Bureau,' so right back atcha, buddy."

At the 2012 Correspondents' Dinner, Obama took on his then-opponent Mitt Romney: "I guess Gov. Romney is feeling pretty good about things, because he took a few hours off the other day to see 'The Hunger Games.' ... It's a movie about people who court wealthy sponsors and then brutally savage each other until only one contestant is left standing. I'm sure this was a really good change of pace for him."

Gallery: Obama's face all over the place

And then at the Alfred E. Smith Dinner in New York a few weeks before the most recent presidential election, Obama mocked Romney again: "Earlier today, I went shopping at some stores in Midtown. I understand Gov. Romney went shopping for some stores in Midtown."

And we even saw it on display again this week when Obama joked with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he was happy to be in the Middle East because it's, "good to get away from Congress." Clearly, Republican House Speaker John Boehner understood who Obama was targeting with this joke, telling CNN's Jake Tapper, "I'd rather be heckled than ignored."

You can dismiss these as simply jokes, but then you aren't grasping how political comedy works. These jokes are funny but also have a message embedded within. For example, the jokes about Romney intentionally furthered the image Obama wanted to paint of Mitt, namely that he was very wealthy and out of touch with the average person.

The change in presidential humor, I believe, can be traced to the influence of "The Daily Show." Since 1999, Jon Stewart has redefined political comedy, using it to entertain, educate and eviscerate. Obama and his joke-writers have simply embraced this style of political comedy to comically undermine critics.

Like it or not, those seeking the presidency in 2016 better do more than build a network of fundraisers and supporters. You'd better work on your comedic barbs, because American politics is becoming the country's toughest room to play.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah says Obama uses jokes like many comedians do: as weapons

@highlight

He says presidents often make self-deprecating jokes, but Obama's can be barbed, too

@highlight

He says Obama has aimed at Trump, Romney, Damon like a comic leveling a heckler

@highlight

Obeidallah: Style draws from Jon Stewart, which educates, eviscerates(CNN) -- After a year of national gridlock that ended on the precipice of a cliff, Donald Trump went nuclear.

The man who called Barack Obama's re-election a travesty said Republicans could gain control of the budget showdown because they "are sitting there with a nuclear weapon": the specter of voting against a rise in the debt ceiling in the coming weeks. In other words, the GOP could get its way by again threatening to push the country into default.

The remarkable thing here is not Trump's apocalyptic advice but that the man who still doesn't concede that the president was born in Hawaii draws attention no matter what he says. The colorful businessman has a knack for hijacking the media -- and he's hardly alone.

Watch: Hey Fox, Hillary Clinton was sick after all

In fact, one of the most striking developments in recent years is how easy it is to carry out the hijacking. You don't need a weapon, nuclear or otherwise. You don't have to be a famous zillionaire to pull it off. In the Twitter age, almost anyone can capture the spotlight for 15 seconds.

We're so easy. If it's new, novel or naughty, we are there.

A critical mass of tweeters hijacked the presidential debates by turning Big Bird and "binders full of women" into trending topics. What, you thought what was most important was what the candidates said during those 90-minute face-offs? Nope, it's just as much about winning the post-game chatter. A single "oops" by Rick Perry enables the press to wipe out everything else that was said.

Watch: Are critics being too harsh on Chelsea Clinton?

Clint Eastwood, telling Obama (in the guise of an empty chair) to perform an anatomically impossible act? That hijacked Mitt Romney's convention.

Eric Fehrnstrom inadvertently hijacked his boss' campaign when he compared Romney's election strategy to an Etch A Sketch. Nothing like a kid's toy to seize the attention of grown-up journalists.

Any invocation of a celebrity has great hijacking potential, even if the story is a sprinkling of fairy dust.

The political press recently surrendered to the notion that Ben Affleck might run for John Kerry's Senate seat in Massachusetts. This was based on nothing more than local chatter, amplified by Politico. Affleck shrewdly kept the door ajar -- such speculation helps in the gravitas department --but on Christmas Eve, he gave the press a lump of coal by admitting he wasn't running.

Watch: Were the media swept away by fiscal cliff madness?

Next the media got excited by the idea that Ted Kennedy Jr. would run for office -- until he quickly popped that trial balloon.

Sometimes the hijacker wants no part of the limelight but is swept along for the ride.

Paula Broadwell was embedded in the nation's consciousness for weeks after her affair with David Petraeus prompted his resignation as CIA director. And her romantic rival, Jill Kelley, became a captive as well.

Racial tension can grab the media's attention like few other issues.

There are more than 15,000 murders annually in the United States, but only a few move beyond local headlines. The killing of Trayvon Martin, initially overlooked even in Florida, became a national sensation once activists persuaded the media that race played a role in the teenager's shooting (a perception deepened by NBC's misleading editing of George Zimmerman's 911 call). Week after week of routine murders in cities such as Chicago barely register on the radar.

WATCH: Forget the Fiscal Cliffâ€”Kim Kardashian Is Pregnant!

Most journalists gravitate toward sensational and sexy stories (and I haven't been immune to the temptation) because we want the clicks and the ratings. And perhaps to alleviate our own boredom with the daily grunt work of reporting. The on-and-off negotiations over the fiscal cliff have been tedious and incremental. Along comes Trump and boom, you've got an easy headline.

The problem with all this media hijacking goes beyond the strange twists and turns along the way. It's that we cede control of what's important.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Howard Kurtz.

@highlight

Howard Kurtz: Donald Trump said the GOP can go nuclear in budget showdown

@highlight

Kurtz: It's remarkable that Trump draw attention no what what he says

@highlight

He says it's so easy to hijack the media in the age of Twitter

@highlight

Kurtz: Journalists like sexy stories but shouldn't lose focus of what's important(CNN) -- When will this recession end? I'm not talking about the economic challenges facing our nation. I'm talking about the severe downturn in the world of political comedy.

By picking Paul Ryan as his running mate, Mitt Romney may have energized the Republican Party. But is Ryan all that exciting? He's a middle-aged, conservative white guy from the Midwest. As NBC's Jimmy Fallon aptly joked earlier this week on his late night show: "Mitt Romney is hoping to energize conservatives with his choice of Paul Ryan as running mate. That's like trying to spice up a bowl of oatmeal with more oatmeal."

Don't get me wrong -- compared with Romney, Paul Ryan is Ashton Kutcher on crack. But even Rush Limbaugh labeled Ryan as "the last Boy Scout." Translation: Reliable but boring.

The guy who makes politicians funny

Let me give you a little background about the plight of political comedy. When the nation found itself in an economic recession as President Barack Obama was taking office, comedians headed into a comedic depression. George W. Bush was comedy gold for eight years. If we knew how little material Obama would be providing us, comedians would have joined forces to repeal the 22nd Amendment to enable Bush to be president for a third term. (I know that would've been bad for the country, but we, comedians, are a particularly selfish breed -- after all, we won't even share the stage with other performers.)

Sure, there have been glimmers of a comedic recovery over the last few years. We perked up when Sarah Palin explored the possibility of running for president. Her candidacy would have been the equivalent of a comedic stimulus package.

Who can forget Rep. Anthony Weiner, who famously posted photos of himself in his underwear on Twitter? This controversy harkened back to the comedy boom bestowed upon us by Bill Clinton's sex scandal.

And recently, the Republican presidential debates offered some good stuff. Most notably, Rick Perry forgetting the name of the third government agency that he wanted to eliminate.

To his credit, Obama has supplied some material, like when he said, "The Middle East is obviously an issue that has plagued the region for centuries." Or when Obama claimed he had traveled across the nation visiting our "57 States."

I know many on the right see Obama as providing much more comedic material than comedians do. They often send me "jokes" about Obama on issues like Obamacare or the "Fast and Furious" program.

While I appreciate the sentiment, here's the cold, hard truth: Conservatives are not funny. I'm being brutally objective here. There are some funny conservative comedians and pundits, but how many can you name? I have my theories why conservatives struggle so horribly when trying to be funny, but I'll keep them to myself because I'm not a mental health professional.

In the midst of this comedy recession where we have witnessed a severe contraction in our GDL -- gross domestic laughter -- there is one potential goldmine that could use a bit more exploration. I'm speaking of vice president Joe Biden.

Just search on Google the words "Biden" and "gaffes" and watch your computer's screen fill up with page after page of "Bidenisms." A few months ago, while referring to Teddy Roosevelt's famous comment to walk softly and a carry a big stick, Biden said: "I promise you, the president has a big stick. I promise you." And now, we have another "Biden moment" when he proclaimed that Romney's policies on regulating Wall Street would put, "y' all back in chains."

Oddly enough, Biden's blunders have not defined him as a comedic figure. At least when compared to say, former Vice President Dan Quayle, who entertained us with gaffe after gaffe, from famously misspelling the word "potato" in front of a class of young students (he added an "e" at the end) to saying things like, "It's wonderful to be here in the great state of Chicago."

There are upcoming events that offer some hope that we will emerge from the comedy doldrums. Donald Trump will be attending the Republican National Convention scheduled later this month and has promised a "big surprise." Perhaps he will pay homage to Romney at the convention by tipping his hair to him.

From Adams to Obama: 10 funny political lines

And we comedians can all dream that at the upcoming Democratic National Convention, Joe Biden will throw away his script and just ad lib his speech. (I would predict that the Secret Service has standing orders to tackle Biden if he tries that.)

Even if these events could provide temporary relief, it's unlikely that we will ever return to the political comedy golden years of Clinton and W. Bush. Like many Americans, we'll simply have to learn to make do with less.

However, I have an idea that is motivated solely in helping the country and not my career. It may end the toxic political climate that is plaguing us. What about a bipartisan presidential ticket in 2016: "Sarah Palin and Anthony Weiner"? Think of the possibilities!

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: There's a severe downturn in the world of political comedy

@highlight

Obeidallah: Paul Ryan, a middle-aged white guy from the Midwest, is "boring"

@highlight

He says the golden years of political comedy were during the Clinton and Bush eras

@highlight

Obeidallah: Comedians can only dream about a ticket like: Sarah Palin and Anthony Weiner(CNN) -- The next time you step foot on a golf course, beware the legal minefield that can await you.

If the game was not difficult enough already, it has a well-deserved reputation of being the most litigious of all sports, bar none.

The cases that come to court cover the full spectrum of grievances and bizarre incidents, from the elderly Irish pensioner suing his former golf club for cutting -- yes cutting -- his handicap, to two-time major winner Rory McIlroy going legal in a high-stakes wrangle over his multimillion-dollar deal with Nike.

From players tripping over rabbit holes, to a pair of New York doctors involved in a landmark legal action after one of them was blinded by the other's errant shot.

It all backs up the main thrust of a publication from 2007 by Craig Brown, a law professor at the University of Western Ontario in Canada.

"Golf and the law seem to have been made for each other," he wrote in "Why Lawyers Love Golf."

"On every fairway, in every stretch of rough, in every clubhouse, in every golf bag, at every swing at the ball, in every set of plans for a new course, in every application for club membership, there lurks a potential lawsuit."

Dalton Floyd Jr. of South Carolina's Floyd Law Firm has made a 40-year-plus career of handling such cases.

He gives an example where neither the claimant nor the appellant were left with a good leg to stand on:

"A lady and her husband were walking from the tee to her golf cart. In a freak accident she stood on a piece of unmade ground and contrived to rupture her Achilles tendon," he told CNN.

"Both her and husband were keen line dancers, couldn't take part in the activity for months and brought a claim on that basis. The club had to settle."

Golfing mousetraps

It highlighted the fact that golf clubs have to think very carefully about every area of their activity because there are mousetraps everywhere, in the legal sense.

Most golf holes have yardage markers dotted on the fairway to let golfers know how far they are from the green, the most common at 150 yards out.

But they had better make sure they are accurate.

"A golfer hit the ball onto a green and hit a player who was waiting to putt," recalls Floyd.

"The golfer hitting the shot claimed the yardage markers put out by the course were inaccurate and he thought the green was further away and out of his reach.

"The club had to settle the claim because they were liable."

And beware the hasty and ill-thought-out redesign of a golf course, says Floyd.

"A club in Hilton Head cut down trees on the left of a dogleg hole, which meant a lot of balls ended up in a big condominium. The owners were not happy and the club was held liable and had to settle."

Serious injury

While it is easy to poke fun at some of the claims, others are for serious injury sustained in the course of playing the sport.

As CNN reported in 2010, being hit by a poor shot while playing is a risk golfers assume and this was backed up by New York's highest court in a key ruling.

Playing at a course in Long Island, Anoop Kapoor hit a shot which struck his fellow doctor Azad Anand in the left eye.

Anand was blinded after the incident and launched a multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Kapoor for damages, alleging his friend was negligent for failing to warn of the shot.

Kapoor testified he thought Anand was behind him and that he didn't see anyone between him and the hole when he took his shot. Kapoor unintentionally sliced it, striking Anand with terrible consequences.

Floyd says most claims of this nature are dismissed: "Thank goodness the courts have an understanding that you can't hit the ball straight all the time, particularly the amateur golfer.

"I think generally we get good decisions from judges because they understand golf is a sport and there is a certain amount of risk when you play."

But that did not stop 15-year-old Alex Good of Hillsboro, Oregon from suing a local golf course for negligence after he hit himself in the eye with his own ball while on its driving range.

According to court documents, Good and his high school teammates were using the practice range. It was raining and the staff at Pumpkin Ridge put up an awning.

When Good teed off, his ball hit a metal post that was holding up the awning just inches in front of his driving mat. The ball ricocheted off and hit him in the left eye.

Good's lawyer claimed Pumpkin Ridge should have known that the metal pole was a danger. Pumpkin Ridge did not respond to CNN's enquiries about the current status of the suit.

Costly repair

During the economic downturn, even well-to-do golfers have felt the pinch, says Floyd, but he warns against what one did to save a few dollars: repairing your own clubs.

He cites the case of a player who took his tee shot -- then the head of the repaired club flew off and got stuck in his playing partner's knee.

Painful for the claimant -- and costly for the do-it-yourself golfer, who was forced to settle the claim.

It's not a position in which former world No. 1 McIlroy should ever find himself, but he is embroiled in a very public legal dispute with his former management agency over its role in his contracts with Nike and other key sponsors.

The 24-year-old from Northern Ireland claims he was misled over the terms of the deals and is seeking compensation.

The agent, Conor Ridge, and the management company Horizon Sports deny the claim and are counter suing in a case which is slated for the courts in October 2014.

McIlroy, whose form has slumped since signing the big-money deals, admitted that it had taken a toll. "I've seen more lawyers' offices and more lawyers this year than I care to see in my entire life," he told reporters at the World Tour Championship in Dubai last month.

Angry Tiger

He also said he was taking advice from Nike stablemate Tiger Woods on how to deal with these pressures, although the world No. 1 himself is at the center of a controversy which threatens to end in a lawsuit.

In a published article grading the tour performance of top players, former PGA pro and now analyst Brandel Chamblee flunked Woods, questioning his integrity and saying that he had been "a little cavalier with the rules."

As evidence, he cited three instances where Woods had been penalized for rules infractions and a fourth where an NBC analyst questioned the drop that Woods made after his ball landed in a water hazard.

Woods' agent Mark Steinberg responded angrily over a "shameful, baseless" report and said he was considering a legal action for damages.

McIlroy will doubtless take his own counsel but might look no further than the fate that befell a 75-year-old amateur golfer from across the border in the Republic of Ireland.

Handicap blues

Thomas Talbot, a retired insurance official, was left with a massive legal bill in excess of $500,000 after launching an action against his former club because it had cut his handicap.

This would normally be a cause for celebration, but Talbot took it as a slight, particularly as a court in Dublin heard he was accused of "handicap building" -- or allegedly playing below his ability to get his handicap raised and thereby be able to win more competitions.

Talbot sued the Hermitage Golf Club and its former handicap secretary in the Irish High Court for defamation, but a judge found against him last year and he has been left with heavy costs.

Golf for a long time was a male-dominated sport but as more women started taking part, clubs which restricted membership came under the legal spotlight for alleged discriminatory practices.

Federal law in the United States now requires clubs open to the public to admit women, but Augusta National, home of the U.S. Masters tournament, was a private club and adopted a strict male-only membership policy for 80 years.

That suddenly changed in August 2012, when it announced it would admit its first two female members, former U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and business leader Darla Moore.

The volte face came without ever reaching a court of law, but rather thanks to the tireless efforts of women's rights activist Martha Burk and reported pressure from key sponsors.

Discrimination suits also extended to the top level of men's professional golf when Casey Martin, a former Stanford University teammate of Woods, took out a case against the PGA Tour.

Martin suffers from a debilitating leg deformity that obstructs blood flow back to his heart.

Having qualified for the full PGA Tour in 2000, Martin wanted to use a golf cart in tournaments, but was refused permission by tour officials.

Martin took a lawsuit on grounds of disability discrimination and finally won his battle in the Supreme Court.

But he was unable to capitalize on his early promise and dropped off the tour, although he was a surprise qualifier for the 2012 U.S. Open.

Trump challenge

No article about lawsuits in golf would be complete without mention of U.S. tycoon Donald Trump and his battles to complete a $1 billion development in northern Scotland.

He faced down opposition from locals and environmental groups, including a lawsuit from an 86-year-old pensioner, to get permission to build his championship course on protected sand dunes in Aberdeenshire.

But having built the course, now Trump himself has gone legal after the Scottish government gave planning permission to a massive offshore wind farm just off the coast -- and within sight of his new resort.

Trump has called the 11 turbine scheme a "useless and grotesque blot on our heritage" and has launched a lawsuit to attempt to stop it.

The Scottish government, led by First Minister Alex Salmond, wants all the country's electricity demands to be met from renewable sources by 2020 and is vigorously defending its decision in the court case, which started November 12 in Edinburgh.

@highlight

Golf has a reputation for being one of the most litigious sports

@highlight

Cases range from the seemingly absurd to the serious

@highlight

Rory McIlroy involved in legal action against former management company

@highlight

Donald Trump suing the Scottish government over an offshore wind farm(CNN) -- It's doubtful there's ever a perfect time or place to end a marriage, but for Dean McDermott, that time and place was in a Palm Springs, California, hotel room after playing a round of golf.

Mary Jo Eustace said she's been able to take her 2006 divorce from Dean McDermott and turn it into a positive.

The actor told his then-wife, Mary Jo Eustace, that he'd been having an affair with Tori Spelling and that he'd found his soul mate, Eustace recalled Tuesday on HLN's "The Joy Behar Show."

"[He said], 'I'm leaving you -- she loves me unconditionally,' " Eustace said.

Eustace replied that "you've known her [for] three weeks. I actually thought it was a joke. I thought I was being punked. But it was true," she told Behar.

Eustace offers life lessons she learned from the 2006 split with McDermott in her book "Divorce Sucks: What to Do When Irreconcilable Differences, Lawyers Fees, and Your Ex Husband's Hollywood Wife Makes You Miserable," which arrived in bookstores Monday.  Watch Eustace describe her shock »

Donald Trump's ex-wife Marla Maples; Dina Matos, ex-wife of former New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey; and Lance Armstrong's ex, Kristen, also appeared on Behar's show to break down what happens during and after very public breakups.

When Eustace found out her 13-year marriage was ending, she said she was "in a really ugly bikini -- missing like padding on one side, holding my daughter in my arms," but at least the bomb wasn't dropped in front of news cameras.

Matos was standing right next to her husband when he admitted at a press conference that he'd had an affair with another man.

"I was in shock because I had only learned three days before that he had been involved in a relationship," Matos recalled on Tuesday's show. "I was there in the moment. I was there physically but mentally, you know; I was just trying to maintain my composure and not fall apart in front of the cameras."

When a marriage ends, "you think this is the end of your life as you know it," Matos said. "And in some ways it is. You feel powerless."

Especially once the media picks up on the crumbling matrimony. "The first week that my divorce was announced ... I saw a picture of my ex-husband with his new wife's legs wrapped around his head," Eustace said. "You're in complete survival mode."

Although Lance Armstrong's post-marriage flame, Sheryl Crow, wasn't the reason his five-year marriage to Kristen ended, she told Behar it was still difficult to watch. And yet the hardest part for Kristen Armstrong was disliking her former husband's new love.

"I really wanted to dislike her," Armstrong said. "I really did. [But] she's beautiful. She's smart. She's funny. She was great with the kids. For as much as I wanted to dislike her and I tried, I couldn't."

Matos said it's different when your husband leaves for another man. "When your husband leaves you for another woman, at some point you know there was love in the marriage, and you had something," she said on Tuesday's show.

"But when your husband is not the person that you think he is, you know, he's an impostor -- then you start questioning every aspect of your life together. What was real? Did he ever love me? Why did he marry me? Later I found out why," she said.

After McGreevey announced his affair, Matos said she found papers that appeared to be the outline for a book that said McGreevey married her "for political gain," she said. "He married me because he wanted to become governor and perhaps president. That's very painful."

All of the ex-wives said they've been able to use their divorces as a time to grow. "You feel dehumanized, horrible," Eustace said of divorce.

"With lawyers and fighting and feeling unloved and unlovable, and the media thrown into it, you really have to take care of yourself and to take care of your kids," she said. "It really can be life-affirming ... a wonderful second opportunity in your life. It can be actually, I think, very positive."

@highlight

Joy Behar invited women who went through public divorces onto her HLN show

@highlight

Mary Jo Eustace talked about how hard it was to watch Dean McDermott move on

@highlight

Lance Armstrong's ex-wife, Kristen, said she couldn't hate her husband's new love

@highlight

Dina Matos said ex-New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey married her for political gainLas Vegas (CNN) -- Declaring victory in Nevada's Republican presidential caucuses on Saturday, Mitt Romney again turned away from his GOP rivals and toward President Barack Obama.

CNN projects that Romney will win the Nevada Republican presidential caucuses, based on results and entrance polling.

With 71% of the votes counted, Romney held about 48% of the vote, while former House Speaker Newt Gingrich had 23% and Rep. Ron Paul had 18%. Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, who had largely bypassed the state, had 11% of the vote. Those numbers were gathered from vote counters at caucus sites across the state and the state's Republican Party.

See full Nevada results

Romney thanked supporters at his campaign headquarters in Las Vegas, telling them, "This isn't the first time you gave me your vote of confidence, but this time I'm going to take it to the White House," alluding to his win in Nevada in 2008.

But then he turned his attention to Obama, saying Nevada has had enough of his kind of help in fixing its home mortgage crisis and that he failed at bringing down unemployment.

Entering the race as front-runner, Romney had largely ignored his Republican rivals and focused on Obama. But as Gingrich rose to challenge him in polls, he was forced to address the other candidates in the race.

His victory speech was a one-on-one with Obama.

"This president began his presidency by apologizing for America. He should now be apologizing to America," Romney told cheering supporters.

The only allusion to GOP opponents Romney made was when he told supporters that he was the only one who could fix the economy, "unlike other people running for president."

Rather than the traditional post-vote speech, Gingrich held a news conference in which he accused the Romney campaign of spreading rumors that he would drop out of the race, calling it "their greatest fantasy."

Gingrich reaffirmed his commitment to stay in the race, saying, "We will continue all the way to Tampa," where the Republican National Convention will be held in August.

Gingrich aides had said that he would outline a new campaign strategy that would be more positive. But while his tone with reporters was cordial, the message wasn't.

Although he called his opponent a "Massachusetts moderate" instead of a "Massachusetts liberal" as he has in the past, Gingrich said he believed he was the alternative to Romney, "who has in his career been pro-abortion, pro-gun control, pro-tax increase, and who ranks third from the bottom in creating jobs in the four years he was governor."

Gingrich downplayed the Nevada results, pointing out that Romney, a Mormon, did well in "a very heavily Mormon state, a state which he carried in 2008."

He said Paul has a "substantial advantage" in any caucus state because of his organization.

Gingrich said he wanted to run a more positive campaign, but that negative attacks were part of the game.

"I stayed relentlessly positive in Iowa, and I lost by 22 points," he said. "I think it's terrible the American system is reduced to negative ads, some of them false."

"But it's a fact, if you're not willing to stand and fight, you have to get out of the race."

Gingrich said he intends to compete for the GOP nomination in every state and will be matching Romney in the polls by the Texas primary on April 3.

"In a few more weeks I'll be ahead in Gallup again," Gingrich predicted.

Romney's Nevada win makes him the first GOP candidate in this cycle to score back-to-back wins. The former Massachusetts governor appeared to win in the Iowa caucuses, but the contest was later awarded to Santorum when the vote was certified. Romney scored a big win in New Hampshire but was then stunned in South Carolina by Gingrich. Romney scored a 14-point victory over Gingrich and the rest of the field in Tuesday's Florida primary and entered Saturday's contest with a sizable lead in polls.

The caucuses were open only to the state's more than 470,000 registered Republicans. Nevada's 28 delegates will be awarded proportionately based on the statewide vote.

Polls leading up to the vote had shown Gingrich trailing far behind Romney. At one point, in the wake of his poor showing in the Florida primary, Gingrich advisers said he would concede the state and look down the road to more friendly states that vote in the March 6 Super Tuesday contests. But ultimately he chose to campaign in Nevada and didn't appear to make up much ground on Romney.

As the votes were being counted, a leading Romney backer in Nevada was calling for Gingrich to drop out of the race instead of continuing to divide the party.

Nevada Rep. Joe Heck, who has been closely allied with Romney since his 2008 presidential bid, said the results of the caucuses should be a wake-up call for Gingrich.

"I hope he takes the message that it's time to withdraw gracefully and not continue to divide the party," Heck told reporters in Las Vegas, shortly before the first caucus results were announced.

While Romney's campaign and his network of supporters have voiced concerns about Gingrich's threat to remain in the race for the long haul, there has not yet been a chorus of Republican leaders publicly asking him to drop out.

Heck was not as insistent, however, when asked if Paul should also bow out for the good of the party.

Paul should quit when it becomes apparent that there is "enough critical mass in terms of delegates," he said, probably sometime after Super Tuesday.

Establishment Republicans fear that the longer the campaign goes on, the more the vitriol between Gingrich and Romney will result in a damaged nominee and give Democrats ammunition from Republicans themselves.

Gingrich isn't expected to do well in the contests in February, but he could rebound on Super Tuesday, where he'll find friendlier voters in contests in Georgia, which he represented in Congress, Tennessee, and Oklahoma.

The former House speaker's stunning victory in the South Carolina primary -- in which he erased Romney's double-digit lead in polls two weeks before the vote to win by double digits -- propelled Gingrich to the lead in national polls. But Romney and groups that support him bombarded Gingrich with negative ads and attack stump speeches, questioning everything from his ethics to his mental stability, and toppled him going into Florida.

Asked Saturday night about the Romney campaign's tactics, Romney's son Josh said there were no regrets within the campaign about Romney's criticism of his rival.

Politics is "a tough sport," Josh Romney said.

While Romney and Gingrich spent caucus night in Nevada, both Paul and Santorum are looking ahead to Tuesday caucus states -- Paul to Minnesota and Santorum to Colorado. Missouri also votes in a nonbinding primary on Tuesday.

Asked about how long his campaign could run, Paul said even if he wanted to drop out of the race ahead of the convention, he couldn't because there would be a "strong rebellion with my friends."

"But we're doing so well there's no reason to think about that," Paul added.

Campaigning in Colorado, Santorum told CNN that he expects to win one of the three events next week in Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri.

"I expect to win the nomination," Santorum said. "I feel very good about how it is going. This race is a long way from being over."

The Silver State could almost be considered home-field advantage for Romney. He won the caucuses here four years ago in his first bid for the GOP nomination, grabbing 51% of the vote, far ahead of Paul, who was in second place at 14%.

Romney won the endorsement Thursday of real estate mogul and reality TV star Donald Trump, who last year flirted with his own bid for the White House. Trump is a well-known figure in Las Vegas and his outspoken criticism of Obama has made him popular with some tea party activists and grass-roots conservatives.

The state's strong tea party movement should have been Gingrich's trump card in Nevada, but supporters seemed divided between Gingrich, Paul and Santorum -- who landed the endorsement of Sharron Angle, the tea party-supported Republican Senate nominee who came close to unseating Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid in the 2010 midterm elections. The division of tea party supporters only helps Romney.

Gingrich started up operations in Nevada much later than Romney and has been playing catch-up since. He does have some major allies in the state, including billionaire casino magnate Sheldon Adelson, who along with his family has contributed millions of dollars to an independent pro-Gingrich super PAC.

The Silver State won't be in the rearview mirror of presidential politics for too long. Nevada is a battleground state in the general election, having voted for the winning presidential candidate 10 out of the last 11 elections. Obama beat McCain by 12 points here in 2008.

CNN's Jim Acosta, Chelsea Carter, Candy Crowley, Phil Gans, Peter Hamby and Gabriella Schwarz contributed to this report

@highlight

In victory speech, Romney again focuses on Obama rather than rivals

@highlight

Gingrich says he's in race for the duration and predicts he'll be competitive

@highlight

Rep. Ron Paul and former Sen. Rick Santorum looking ahead to other contestsWASHINGTON (CNN)  -- They came from all corners of the world, braved fiercely cold temperatures and stood together on the Mall in Washington to share in one historic moment -- when Barack Obama became the 44th president and the first African-American elected to the post.

Crowds at the inaugural parade cheer and snap photos of President Obama on Tuesday.

Millions of people packed the Mall early Tuesday to watch Obama's inauguration and later hit the parade route to catch a glimpse of the new president. For many, the inauguration was the realization of a dream they never thought could be fulfilled.

This is America happening," said Evadey Minott of Brooklyn, New York. "It was prophesied by [the Rev. Martin Luther] King that we would have a day when everyone would come together. This is that day. I am excited. I am joyful. It brings tears to my eyes." Obama's speech: How did he do?

L.J. Caldwell of Somerset, New Jersey, said Obama's inauguration capped five decades of struggle for African-Americans.

"When you think back, Malcolm [X] fought. Then we come a little further, Rosa Parks sat. Then come up a little further, and Martin [King Jr.] spoke. Then today, President Obama ran, and we won."  Watch Obama say Americans have "chosen hope over fear" »

iReporter Barbara Talisman, 48, of Chicago, watched Tuesday from a spot on the Mall near the American Museum of Natural History.

"The historical significance of today and importance of our work made it necessary for me to be here and not at home. I want to be a witness," Talisman said.

Kim Akins, 43, of Chicago, Illinois, who lives just blocks from Obama's home, made the trek to Washington with her 8-year-old daughter, Chloe.

Vanessa Reed of Centerville, Virginia, took her daughters to a spot on the inaugural parade route.

"I was going to take my daughter here if it was the last thing I did," she said. "It's breathtaking. ... It's overwhelming."

Vanessa Reed of Centerville, Virginia, who brought her two young daughters to the inauguration, reflected on Obama's speech as she sat with her daughters across from the presidential reviewing stand at the end of the parade route.

"It was beautiful. It spoke to the issues of the moment," said Reed, who worked for the Obama campaign. "I am proud this country saw what we saw in him."

Patrick Bragg, 44, of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, contemplated the day as he tried to stay warm standing over steam vents on H Street.

Patrick Bragg says he rode a bike 18 miles to get to downtown Washington on Tuesday morning.

"I've been sitting here thinking -- it's really beautiful," said Bragg, who rode a bike 18 miles from Bethesda, Maryland, to attend Tuesday's ceremonies. "This is what I would consider the true representation of all of America. Obama gives everyone space at the table."

Some of those attending Tuesday recalled how they were part of the effort that culminated in the historic day.

"You remember why you are doing it all, why you were working so hard on the campaign making phone calls, knocking on doors and getting slammed in the face sometimes," said iReporter Vanessa Palmer of the University of South Florida in Tampa.

Howard University student Shakuwra Garrett, 18, said she felt like "a part of history."

"I can carry this with me the rest of my life," Garrett said. "It's an accomplishment for all of us."

The accomplishment crossed borders and oceans for some of those at Tuesday's inauguration.

"The dream came true," said Fatima Cone, 39, who came to the U.S. from Ivory Coast, where her mother wears an Obama T-shirt.

She conveyed the excitement her family feels in West Africa.

"The fight is the same for all blacks. It's the same story. It's the same fight wherever you come from," Cone said.

Canadians Peter and Susan Butler drove down from Toronto, Ontario, to see the event and "support the American people." iReport.com: Are you in Washington? Share your story

"This is a world event," Susan Butler said. "We can tell our grandchildren we were here."

Briton Simon Ginty called the Obama inauguration "an international moment."

Simon Ginty of Manchester, England, said the world was celebrating Tuesday.

"This is an international moment as well as an American moment. I'm excited to see how Obama changes things. I imagine things are gonna be on the up," Ginty said.

Eli Bracken, an iReporter from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, drove into Washington early Tuesday to try to see the inauguration, but large crowds kept him away from the Mall.  Watch a satellite image of the crowd »

Instead, he watched on TV from a McDonald's restaurant on E Street near the Canadian Embassy. The eatery went silent during the inaugural prayer, he said.

"It was just cool that everybody knew they were witnessing something awesome," Bracken said. "There were people gathered around every car they could just to hear it."

Dartmouth College student Amarita Sankar, 18, watched Obama's speech on the grounds of the Washington Monument.

"Whenever I hear him speak, I want to be a better person. That's what you want in a leader, " Sankar said.

Margaret Trowelle of Jersey City, New Jersey, gets strangers to autograph an inauguration hat Tuesday.

Margaret Trowelle of Jersey City, New Jersey, showed off a hat she had signed by others she's met in the nation's capital.

"Everyone is so friendly," she said.

Benica Tripleti from Eastern Kentucky University was among a group of 54 people headed to the Mall. She said she had one goal: "to see Obama's head."

Kathie Easom and Christine Hannon of upstate New York were looking to plant themselves on the Mall and watch the proceedings on a screen.

"It's a once in a lifetime event," Easom said.

Eight rows behind the inauguration stand, Sylvia Schoen of Phoenix, Arizona, waited in the morning cold.

"It's freezing. It's worth it. It's worth it," she said.  Watch the atmosphere surrounding the inauguration »

"Obama's cause is all about the future. I think that's why everyone's so excited right now," Schoen said. "It's like we can do anything. Look what we just did, the people. The people did this. Not the politicians. We did it."

Harvard University student Megan Starr, 21, was impressed with the crowd.

"I've never seen people excited about politics before," she said. "Usually they are politically apathetic, but people are getting involved."

Woodie Lee Durham of Buffalo, New York, says Tuesday marks a milestone for African-American influence.

In a seating section for the disabled on the Mall, Woodie Lee Durham of Buffalo, New York, said Tuesday was a landmark for African-American influence on America.

"It is no longer a question; this is the answer," Durham said.

Of the millions who came to hear Obama speak, many made sure to hit the parade route, in hopes of catching a glimpse of the new president.

"Obama! Obama!" throngs of people cheered as the limo carrying the new president made its way down the street.

Obama and his wife, Michelle, stepped out of the presidential limo for a couple of minutes and walked the parade route, waving to supporters as they passed.

Meghann Curtis, 30, of New Jersey was at the Mall for the inauguration but also managed to snag a seat at the parade.

"It was majestic. That's the word that keeps coming to mind," she said.

"They are elegant and tall and gorgeous," Curtis said of the Obamas. "There is something breathtaking about the two of them."

Many reached for their cameras, trying to capture a permanent memory of the moment. Supporters waved American flags, and some even sang as they waited for their chance to greet President Obama.  See photos of Obama's inauguration »

After 12 hours of waiting, many of them in the cold, Karin Riggs, 29, of Seattle, Washington, and her bandmates marched into history. The trumpet player was one of 177 participants, from 26 states, performing with the Lesbian and Gay Band Association -- the first lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender group in history to be invited to march in a presidential inaugural parade.

"We were not just making history for our organization. We were making history for the LGBT community," she said by phone.

Danielle Davis and son Carson, 6, of Chantilly, Virginia, got into their parade seats at 10:40 a.m.

Davis said the experience was worth dealing with freezing weather and a long wait.

"It was exciting, thrilling," she said. "I am so glad to be a part of history."

CNN's Adam Levine, Ed Hornick, Valerie Streit, Scott J. Anderson and Kristi Keck contributed to this report.

@highlight

New Jersey woman calls inauguration, parade "majestic"

@highlight

"This is America happening," says New York woman

@highlight

Barack Obama's election shows American people "can do anything," woman says(CNN) -- I'm struck by one big question as I watch the Republican presidential candidates battle each other while President Obama tries to win re-election: Why does anyone want to be president?

It's like auditioning to be bandleader on the Titanic. And yes, I said bandleader and not captain because the captain of a ship has more of an impact on the direction of a voyage than President Obama, or any president who might follow him, can have in our hyperpolarized political climate.

With the onslaught of problems he faces today, I wouldn't be shocked if in the coming weeks President Obama appeared on national TV and declared: "I have an important announcement: I was actually born in Kenya. Joe Biden you take over, I'm outta here!"

But he won't quit. Instead, he will raise close to a billion dollars for his re-election campaign. Meanwhile, the Republican presidential candidates will viciously fight each other, like gladiators in the Roman Coliseum -- which, frankly, the past two Republican debates resembled. The audience jeered and booed, with some at times even applauding the death penalty and cheering the notion of allowing a person with no health insurance to die. All that was missing was a thumbs up or down from the crowd indicating if a candidate should be executed. (This, too, would undoubtedly have been met with cheers.)

Think about it: When you run for president , you are running for the worst job in America. If elected (or re-elected) you must deal with a cascade of domestic and international headaches.

But to me the greatest challenge facing our president (or a new president) is not the economy or the European debt crisis. It's not the growing influence of China, the Arab Spring or even the issue of Palestinian statehood.

Nope, the biggest challenge the president faces is us. Yes, "We the People." Simply put, we are horrible. We have become unreasonably demanding. We want everything now and we won't compromise.

"We the People" have become Veruca Salt from "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory," making demands in our high-pitched voices: "I want a goose that lays golden eggs and I want it now!!" "I want the deficit reduced now, Daddy!" "I want low taxes but the same government services!"

And if you won't give us what we want, when we want it, we will turn our back on you. For example, President Obama had almost a 60% approval rating after the killing of Osama Bin Laden in May, but just four months later, a recent poll shows, his approval rating is at 39%. The left wants him to be more liberal, the right wants him to be more conservative and the middle just wants more.

The Republican presidential candidates have seen this, too, with Rick Perry being at first welcomed into the race like the "prodigal son." Now, only a few weeks later, he looks more like a doomed NASA satellite about to fall from the sky.

What has caused us to become so demanding? The 24-hour news cycle and social media that allows instant real-time commentary have contributed. But an even bigger factor is our conditioning to reality show competitions on TV. On any number of TV shows each week, we watch, judge and vote on whether a person performs to our liking. One week we sing their praises, but the next week, if they misstep, they are dead to us.

We now treat our candidates this way. It's a presidential version of "Celebrity Apprentice," where we want to fire -- or at least dissect and scrutinize -- the president and presidential candidates for every small gaffe. I have seen better treatment for contestants on Gordon Ramsay's "Hell's Kitchen" than for our candidates for president.

If this keeps up, what type of candidates for president will we attract in the future? Will it be the smartest and the most qualified or those who, like reality show stars, can weather the cruel glare of an unending spotlight and the fickleness of our affection?

Even reality-show veteran Donald Trump's skin was too thin to run for president, which is shocking since his skin looks like leather. And, yes, that snarky comment is just the kind of thing I'm talking about, but I'm no better than the rest of us.

Since this seems to be what we crave, why not commit 100% to it and create political reality shows to choose our future presidents? What about shows like: "The Amazing Electoral Race," "Dancing with the Candidates," or "So You Think You Can Govern?"

We can vote people off until we are left with the man or woman who has survived by telling us exactly what we want to hear each and every week.

But if we don't take a break from this "American Presidential Idol" mentality, we will have no one to blame but ourselves when the 2016 presidential campaign pits Mike "The Situation" against the Kardashians.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: With politics so hyperpolarized, who would want to be president?

@highlight

So many challenges, he says, but the biggest is unreasonable, demanding voters

@highlight

He says we treat political leaders like reality show players, up one day, down the next

@highlight

Obeidallah: We run risk of ending up with leaders who tell us only what we want to hearWashington (CNN) -- Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich made it official Wednesday: He's running for president.

The Georgia Republican announced via Twitter that he is formally seeking the 2012 GOP presidential nomination.

Gingrich is widely viewed as the most serious official Republican candidate so far.

"I'm announcing my candidacy for president of the United States because I believe we can return America to hope and opportunity," the former speaker said in a campaign video posted online.

"We Americans are going to have to talk together, to work together, find solutions together, and insist on imposing those solutions on those forces that don't want to change."

The candidate called for more jobs, a balanced budget and decentralized government.

"There are some people who don't mind if America becomes a wreck so long as they dominate the wreckage," Gingrich said. "But you and I know better."

"Let's get together, look reality in the face, tell the truth, make the tough choices and get the job done," he declared.  "There's a much better American future ahead."

House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Virginia, said earlier Wednesday that "the discussion around the presidential race will obviously increase" when Gingrich entered the race for the GOP nomination.

"I think Gingrich has always been an ideas man, and I'm sure that will provide a lot of positive input to the debate," Cantor said.

Gingrich's online announcement followed a recent trend by national politicians to make major announcements through the Internet.

Barack Obama first announced his selection of Joe Biden as his running mate in 2008 on his campaign website and in a text message to supporters. Then-Sen. Hillary Clinton announced her presidential candidacy in 2007 with the release of a statement and video on her campaign website.

Asked about his embracing of technology to make his announcement, Gingrich told Fox News' Sean Hannity on Wednesday night that "there are a lot of principles that haven't changed."

He came out swinging against Obama, the "elite" media and Hollywood.

Obama should be ashamed of himself for "dishonest scare tactics" in comments about Republican approaches to the budget and immigration, Gingrich said, adding he wanted to "clear away the liberal policies."

The candidate has traveled to key early voting states trying to build a network of support and has met with fundraisers. He has assembled a campaign team and told supporters he aims to raise $100 million.

During his appearances, the former speaker has pushed a wide array of policy proposals in his bid to lay the foundation of a campaign and prove he is a serious candidate, not just a symbol of the past.

"I expect the American people in the end will be remarkably fair. They'll render judgment, and they'll decide whether or not Newt Gingrich is somebody that they think can solve the country's problems and be the kind of leader they want for this country," Gingrich told Fox News in March.

He has given his audiences a lot of political red meat and has not shied away from controversy.

Speaking at the Iowa Faith and Freedom Coalition event in March, he said there is a difference between a majority of Americans and "the secular socialist people around (President Barack) Obama and the degree to which they do not understand America, cannot possibly represent America and cannot lead us to success."

Gingrich has an agenda the includes overturning the health care reform bill, eliminating the Environmental Protection Agency, pushing more development of energy sources and advocating tax cuts.

"He is a polarizing figure (who) comes with a fair degree of baggage," Ford O'Connell, who worked on the 2008 McCain-Palin ticket, told CNN. He said Gingrich has to make himself relevant to the current political climate. "He does represent the past but has to show why he represents the future," O'Connell said, adding that he thinks right now Gingrich is having difficulty doing that.

"If he can demonstrate why he is relevant to the future in the current political climate," O'Connell said, "the baggage will dissipate."

Some Republican activists not affiliated with a campaign have said Gingrich might not be disciplined enough to focus his ideas to run a successful campaign.

Pollster David Winston, who worked with Gingrich during his years in the House, said he can.

"There isn't any question Newt Gingrich is a person with lots of ideas," Winston told CNN. "The step for Newt here is to not just merely focus on the future ... (but to) focus on the problems the country is most worried about."

Gingrich told Hannity he is better equipped to be president than when he left office 12 years ago.

"It's fair to say I am more mature," he said. "I have had time to reflect on what worked and what didn't work."

He declined to list who his strongest Republican foe might be, instead saying the focus is on the president.

The former House speaker, who converted to Catholicism, the religion of his current wife, has especially reached out to the social conservative wing of the party, a segment critical to success in the key states of Iowa and South Carolina.

Many of those activists are skeptical of Gingrich because of his two divorces.

"There's no question at times of my life, partially driven by how passionately I felt about this country, that I worked far too hard and things happened in my life that were not appropriate," Gingrich explained to the Christian Broadcasting Network's David Brody.

After the Georgia Republican lost two runs for Congress in the 1970s, his third attempt in 1978 was successful. He was aggressive and rose to the second spot in the House Republican leadership. He was instrumental in helping to craft the 1994 Contract with America, a blueprint that helped the Republicans take control of the House. He was elected speaker but, after a disappointing GOP showing in the House elections in 1998, he decided to retire in 1999.

He then went about rehabilitating his political career, forming a conservative policy think tank called American Solutions, starting a string of successful businesses and becoming a political commentator. He has an impressive record of fundraising, he has developed a large network of supporters and he has authored almost two dozen books and produced movies on a wide range of topics.

Gingrich still has some work to do on his reputation.

Forty-four percent of those surveyed in a recent CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll said they had an unfavorable opinion of him, while 30% said they had a favorable one. That gives him one of the largest unfavorable rankings of the GOP presidential contenders, although it also shows he has high name recognition.

When Republicans are asked who they favor for the nomination, 10% choose Gingrich, tying him with Rep. Ron Paul of Texas but behind Sarah Palin, Mitt Romney, Donald Trump and Mike Huckabee.

"He brings a lot to the debate. But there are a lot of candidates in the process of going through a presidential primary. We'll sort out the good from the bad, and we'll end up with a good candidate," House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said on NBC's "Today" show Tuesday regarding a Gingrich candidacy.

It has not been all smooth sailing as Gingrich tested the waters. He admitted his advisers flubbed the initial announcement in March that he was exploring a run and starting a website, when expectations were built up that they would announce a more formal step.

"It led to unfortunate confusion," he told the Des Moines Register. "I wish we had been a little more structured ... but I don't take it as a serious problem."

Gingrich also drew some criticism for not giving a coherent critique of the Obama administration's policy on Libya. He told Fox News on March 7, when asked what he would do, that he would "exercise a no-fly zone this evening." But later, after a no-fly zone was put in place, he said on NBC's "Today Show" that "I would not have intervened. I think there are a lot of other ways to affect (Libyan leader Moammar) Gadhafi."

For his part, Gingrich has denied he flip-flopped, saying he was just commenting on the circumstances as they changed. He posted on his Facebook page: "President Obama said publicly that 'it's time for Gadhafi to go.' Prior to this statement there were options to be indirect and subtle to achieve this result without United States military forces."

"The president, however, took those options off the table with his public statement," he continued. "That's why during a March 7th Greta van Susteren interview, I asserted that the president should establish a no-fly zone 'this evening.' "

CNN's Rebecca Stewart and Alan Silverleib contributed to this story.

@highlight

NEW: Newt Gingrich criticizes President Obama for "dishonest scare tactics"

@highlight

He has assembled a campaign team and told supporters he aims to raise $100 million

@highlight

His agenda includes overturning health care reform and eliminating the EPA

@highlight

Other topics: Pushing more development of energy sources and advocating tax cuts(EW.com) -- Did Billy Crystal rescue the Oscars?

Even with few box-office heavyweights in contention for top categories, Sunday night's 84th Annual Academy Awards telecast rose slightly in the ratings from last year.

ABC's awards coverage delivered 39.3 million viewers, up 4 percent from 2011, according to the network. In the adult demo, the show received an 11.7 rating, off a tenth from 2011. The program out-delivered three of the past four Oscars telecasts and ranked as ABC's most-watched program in two years.

And yet, the Oscars were outshone in one respect: CBS' Grammys coverage earlier this month pulled a slightly bigger audience than the usually dominant Academy Awards, and totally stomped the Oscars in the adult demo. The music awards show had 39.9 million viewers, just barely edging out Sunday's telecast. If last night's viewership tally is sustained in Nielsen's national ratings release tomorrow, it will mark the first year the Grammys drew a larger crowd than the Oscars since Nielsen started its current ratings system in 1992. Among adults 18-49, there was no contest: Grammys had a 14.1 rating to Oscars 11.7.

Here's how the Oscars have fared in recent years:

-- 2011: 37.9 million viewers / 11.8 adult demo rating ("King's Speech")

-- 2010: 41.7 million viewers / 13.3 adult demo rating ("Hurt Locker")

-- 2009: 36.3 million viewers / 12.1 adult demo rating ("Slumdog Millionaire")

-- 2008: 32 million viewers / 10.7 adult demo rating ("No Country for Old Men") -- Lowest

-- 2007: 40.2 million viewers / 14.1 adult demo rating ("The Departed")

...

-- 1998: 55.2 million viewers ("Titanic") -- Highest

Also Sunday night: CBS' "Amazing Race" (7.6 million, 2.1) was down 25 percent this week (understandably). NBC's "Celebrity Apprentice" (5 million, 1.8) was hammered down 31 percent (also understandably -- if you like celebrities, are you going to watch Donald Trump's Island of Broken Toys or the Oscars?).

See the full article at EW.com.

CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly

© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

The Oscars delivered 39.3 million viewers, up 4 percent from 2011

@highlight

The program out-delivered three of the past four Oscars telecasts

@highlight

CBS' Grammys coverage earlier this month pulled a slightly bigger audienceWashington (CNN)Decision time for GOP operatives, another controversial foreign policy choice for President Obama, a ripple effect from the Robert Menendez indictment, and two insights into Hillary Clinton's campaign launch -- those stories filled our Sunday trip around the "Inside Politics" table.

Obama's Iran diplomacy already has his conservative critics fired up, and things could get even more interesting in the week ahead.

The President is headed to Panama for a regional summit, and Julie Pace of The Associated Press reports one of the big questions is whether he'll make history and have a face-to-face meeting with Cuban leader Raul Castro.

"This would be the first meeting between a U.S. and a Cuban leader in decades," said Pace.

"But Obama's efforts to end this freeze of Cuba have been a lot more difficult than they looked when he announced it last year," Pace said.  "And so what the White House is going to be weighing is whether this meeting would be a way to generate more progress or whether it would be a premature reward for the Castros."

Hillary Clinton has leased her headquarters space in Brooklyn and will soon make her presidential campaign official.

And with the launch, Jonathan Martin of The New York Times reports, will come a carefully orchestrated effort to reintroduce Clinton -- with an emphasis on her childhood and her earlier work on children's issues.

"The Democrats around Hillary Clinton believe that while she's one of the most famous people in the world, she's never been properly introduced in her own right," said Martin.

"So when she does roll out her campaign here in a couple of weeks, look for more biographical touches. We'll hear about her childhood in suburban Chicago and some of the work that she did as an advocate for the Legal Services Corporation and the Children's Defense Fund when she was in her 30s, and also, more about her Arkansas days as first lady, as an advocate for education."

A lot of the big names signing on to Team Clinton are already known. But Dan Balz of The Washington Post explains part of the statement her campaign wants to make with the announcement is to show it has a large, experienced staff ready for the key national and state roles.

"What I'm hearing is that when they launch, this staff is going to be even much, much bigger than we, at this point, imagine, that they have done a huge amount of hiring," said Balz.

And Balz reports the planning centers on smaller events designed to highlight more personal interaction.

"She did an event with the wife of the mayor of New York earlier this week that could be a template for the kinds of things they're doing."

Much of the media attention on the corruption indictment against Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey has been on its allegations of luxury hotel stays with girlfriends.

But beyond the more tabloidesque details, Jackie Kucinich of The Daily Beast notes that one of the charges centers on a suggestion the senator's staff was soliciting funds for a so-called super PAC -- a violation of campaign finance laws.

And she says the scrutiny of that practice might grow because of the Menendez allegations.

"I was talking to some campaign finance watchdogs this week and they say if the (Federal Election Commission) really starts to look into this, they're actually going to find some impropriety with other lawmakers much much farther than Menendez," said Kucinich. "So watch for that if it starts happening."

By a week from Monday, there will be three official GOP candidates for president: Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Marco Rubio.

Others will soon follow, and as things get more official, pressure is mounting on GOP operatives to choose sides.

In New Hampshire this past week, Matt Maroney, a former Mitt Romney alum with ground organizing experience, signed on with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's team. Others in the state reported calls coming in from Ohio Gov. John Kasich and, yes, even Donald Trump.

This dynamic plays out on the national level, too: Republican pollster Tony Fabrizio, for example, was approached both by Team Christie and by allies of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker. In the end, though, Fabrizio signed on with Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky, who makes his official announcement on Tuesday.

@highlight

White House weighing whether Obama should meet with Raul Castro

@highlight

A serious congressional ripple effect from the Menendez indictment?

@highlight

It's decision time for GOP operatives as the 2016ers get ready to launch(Rolling Stone) -- Relax, you legions of Hunger Gamers. We have a winner.

Hollywood didn't screw up the film version of Suzanne Collins' young-adult bestseller about a survival-of-the-fittest reality show that sends home all its teen contestants, save the victor, in body bags. The screen "Hunger Games" radiates a hot, jumpy energy that's irresistible. It has epic spectacle, yearning romance, suspense that won't quit and a shining star in Jennifer Lawrence, who gives us a female warrior worth cheering.

That's more than you can say for the castration job that the suits did on Stephenie Meyer's "Twilight" franchise. I'll admit that "Games" isn't the scary, eruptive firecracker of my dark, Tarantino-fueled imagination. And if you're among the 26 million who devoured the Collins trilogy -- "The Hunger Games" followed by "Catching Fire" and "Mockingjay" -- you know it could have been. But even wearing a PG-13 harness to ensure profitability, "The Hunger Games" gets your pulse racing. It's about something pertinent, the mission to define yourself in a world that's spinning off its moral axis.

As 16-year-old Katniss Everdeen, the renegade hunter who kills with a bow and arrow and stands up to take the place of her younger sister in the deadly Games, Lawrence reveals a physical and emotional grace that's astonishing. Give her the deed, because she owns this movie. It's not just that Katniss makes "Twilight's" Bella Swan look like the wimp she is, it's that Lawrence, 21, is an acting dynamo with the skills to let us into Katniss' searching mind. Last year, Lawrence won an Oscar nomination for playing an Ozark girl in "Winter's Bone." She's just as affecting this time, lending primal force to this dystopian fable of a society out of sync with human values.

At 142 minutes, "The Hunger Games" can go from rushed to draggy. But director Gary Ross ("Pleasantville," "Seabiscuit") hits the high spots, using action to define character instead of obliterate it. He wisely brought in Collins to collaborate on the script he wrote with Billy Ray ("Shattered Glass"). That way, even when the book's events are condensed or characters eliminated, the feeling stays true.

"The Games" are a punishment invented by the Capitol of Panem (read: North America) for the 12 districts whose rebellion against Capitol rule was crushed more than 74 years ago. The attitude of President Snow (Donald Sutherland, wily in his evil) is "You screwed us, so we'll screw you." Every year on Reaping Day, a boy and a girl (ages 12 to 18) from each district are chosen by lottery to fight to the death in a televised gladiator event devised by head Games-maker Seneca Crane (Wes Bentley). Ratings are not a problem.

Even in downtrodden District 12, where Katniss hunts for scraps to feed her sister and her widowed mother, viewing the Games is mandatory. You won't need your arm twisted to see the movie, artfully shot by Tom Stern ("Mystic River") as the scene shifts from the perverse lushness of the Capitol to the stark landscape of the battle zone. And did I mention makeovers? All the Tributes (that's what contenders are called) get them. Katniss has fashion genius Cinna (Lenny Kravitz doing a fun spin on Tom Ford) to create a wow dress that bursts into flame at the hem. Nice one.

Like Bella before her, Katniss is pursued by two laddies-in-waiting, in this case Gale Hawthorne (Liam Hemsworth), the strapping District 12 hunk and fellow illegal hunter she leaves behind, and Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson), the baker's son who joins Katniss in the Games and secretly pines for her. Are you Team Gale or Team Peeta? You might not care as much, since neither has the exotic allure of a vampire or a wolf. But Hemsworth ("The Last Song," with girlfriend Miley Cyrus) quickly establishes a strong, appealing presence. And Hutcherson ("The Kids Are All Right") brings humor and a bruised heart to a boy who needs to mature fast.

Dynamite actors dot the film.

Stanley Tucci is a brilliant blend of mirth and malice as Caesar Flickerman, a TV host who reps the dark side of Ryan Seacrest in this lethal version of "American Idol." Elizabeth Banks brings malicious wit to the bewigged and powdered PR guru Effie Trinket. "May the odds be ever in your favor," announces Effie with inane sincerity. And the reliably stellar Woody Harrelson cuts deep as the perpetually s***faced Haymitch Abernathy, a former victor in the Games now acting as mentor to both Katniss and Peeta. When he's not falling-down drunk, Haymitch instructs his protÃ©gÃ©s on how to suck up to sponsors who send supplies into the arena when a Tribute wins audience favor. So-called reality TV is given a sharp, satirical kick as Tributes learn to play and pander to hidden cameras. Is Katniss really falling for Peeta as she nurses his wounds, or is she faking it to save her a** and his? Discuss.

Sadly, the erotic heat that Collins generates between Katniss and Peeta in a hidden cave never rises above room temperature onscreen. Hand-to-hand combat does fuel the intensity as Katniss fights career Tributes trained to go medieval on enemy ass. Check out machete-wielding Cato (Alexander Ludwig) and knife-throwing Clove (Isabelle Fuhrman), not to mention a swarm of deadly, genetically engineered wasps called Tracker Jackers. The caring bond Katniss forms with Rue (Amandla Stenberg), the youngest Tribute, is just a brief break from the assaults aimed to make Katniss trade her soul for survival.

For all its compromises, "The Hunger Games" is a zeitgeist movie that captures the spirit of a soul-sucking age in which ego easily trumps common cause. Ironically, the kill-to-win ethos that dominates movies from 1987's prophetic "The Running Man" to the undiluted brutality of Japan's "Battle Royale" in 2000, may find its largest viewership in "The Hunger Games." But will mainstream audiences respond to the moral challenge churning under the pop-culture razzle-dazzle? It's anybody's guess.

My advice is to keep your eyes on Lawrence, who turns the movie into a victory by presenting a heroine propelled by principle instead of hooking up with the cutest boy. That's what makes Katniss revolutionary. May the odds be ever in her favor.

See the full article at RollingStone.com.

Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.

@highlight

Critic: "Jennifer Lawrence is an acting dynamo with the skills to let us into Katniss' mind"

@highlight

Reviewer says Hutcherson "brings humor and a bruised heart to a boy who needs to mature fast"

@highlight

Travers: "Elizabeth Banks brings malicious wit to the bewigged and powdered PR guru Effie Trinket"The sight of Dr. Kent Brantly, a victim of the Ebola virus, walking from an ambulance to the Emory University Hospital in Atlanta in his hazmat suit may become an iconic photo of modern American history.

Brantly served the poor and infirm and put his own life in jeopardy serving patients in Liberia, so you would think that he would be received as a hero, admired for his work, and held up as an example of the highest calling of his profession and his religion. The same is true of his colleague, American Liberia volunteer Nancy Writebol, who just arrived in the States for treatment.

But not everyone seems to think so. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta has received hate e-mails and phone calls.  An op-ed in Bloomberg View questions who made the decision to bring Brantly home, and social media is abuzz with demands that Ebola victims not be admitted to the United States at all.  The New York Post proclaimed "Ebola fear is going viral" and quoted one of Donald Trump's tweets: "Ebola patient will be brought to the U.S. in a few days -- Now I know for sure that our leaders are incompetent. KEEP THEM OUT OF HERE!"

This kind of reaction is, unfortunately, nothing new for the United States. The U.S. has a history of irrational panic over disease and other perceived dangers, of behaving badly about them and then feeling remorseful later. Perhaps it all started with the Salem witch trials, which became the template for similar panics throughout our history.

Ebola is here: 5 reasons not to panic

The American fear that an epidemic was corrupting our health, our morals, or our children has inspired movements to ban the waltz, rock and roll, romance novels, comic books, and Dungeons and Dragons.

Of course, unlike dancing or computer games, disease really can cause epidemics and threaten our health and our lives. Early in an epidemic, especially of a new disease, we are often unsure of the cause, the mode of transmission, or the degree of contagiousness of a disease.

What is the risk of catching Ebola on a plane?

But even when we know the nature and cause of a disease, irrational panics still seem to grip us.  As an issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association lamented, "When the public fears contagion from a dangerous disease, all unselfish considerations and regard for anything except personal safety are often forgotten." The quote is from an article in 1910, and refers to the public's fear that cancer was contagious and belief that people with the disease should be isolated and shunned.

It seems, a century later, we have still not learned our lesson. "AIDS hysteria" became a familiar term in the late 1980s, and despite scientific certainty over its mode of transmission, a 1986 poll by the Los Angeles Times found that 50% of the adults surveyed supported a quarantine of AIDS patients, 48% approved of identity cards for people who tested positive for the antibody to the virus, and 15% favored tattooing AIDS victims for easy identification.

Like Ebola, HIV-AIDS is not spread casually. But also like Ebola, AIDS was first associated with a minority population feared by many in the majority. Infection seems somehow all the worse when spread by those we fear or disdain.

What to know about Ebola

The stories of cruelty and lack of compassion for those who suffered from AIDS are  well documented and relegated to the history of American shame. Yet the compassionate treatment of the sick is a fundamental tenet of all the major religions, East and West, and forms the moral basis of the American medical and public health systems.

American citizens, especially those who become sick through service to the needy in other parts of the world, need to know that America stands ready to welcome them back and to care for them as best we can.

We know exactly how Ebola is contracted and how it spreads. We have perfectly safe procedures to keep it contained. Despite the severity of the outbreak in Africa, Ebola is not spread quickly like the flu or a cold. It involves contact with bodily fluids that are easily contained with the proper precautions.

American hospitals deal with such infectious diseases every day -- in fact, the Ebola virus has been in research labs all over the United States for years without an incident of infection. Visitors to the United States have brought other African hemorrhagic fevers like Ebola with them, and have been discovered and treated here. How many cases have these infectious visitors -- who were not in hazmat suits and isolation rooms -- spread to other Americans?  None.

There are two epidemics in the world today. The first is a troubling spread of the Ebola virus in poor countries in Africa, an outbreak that is the result of poverty, inattention by those countries' political leaders, and a general lack of concern by the wealthier nations about epidemics that don't yet seem to directly affect them.

But the second epidemic is a more dangerous one. It is a spreading lack of compassion, characterized by disaster fatigue, helplessness in the face of war refugees, intolerance for immigration, and now, the desire to ban even American citizens who are sick and need our help. The second epidemic seems harder to contain than the first, but it is every bit as important.

@highlight

Donald Trump, bloggers, op-ed writers say we should keep Americans with Ebola out

@highlight

Paul Wolpe: After putting lives on the line, infected Americans should be treated as heroes

@highlight

Wolpe: Panic, fear drive discrimination, hate. We should have learned from AIDS hysteria

@highlight

He says we show no compassion in wanting to ban sick Americans who need help(CNN) -- Stakes have been raised in the museum world with the reopening after 10 years of Amsterdam's Rijksmuseum. Enough old masters were dusted down and rehung during the renovation to get a room of Russian oligarchs panting.

The chance to see Rembrandt's huge and glorious "The Night Watch" painting once more -- it has a whole room to itself in the refurbished gallery -- is reason enough to plan some serious museum crawling on your next European trip.

But do you always want to follow the crowd to the obvious treasures? Your Mona Lisas, your Van Goghs?

Sometimes those artistic icons are obligatory sights but experts reveal that -- from a two-million-year-old stone tool to a life-size Roman equestrian statue made entirely of bronze -- some of the most remarkable museum and gallery highlights take a little digging.

What: The Olduvai stone chopping tool.

Where: The British Museum, London (Great Russell Street, +44 (0)20 7323 8299).

Jeremy Hill, research manager at the British Museum, says one piece he always takes people to is a two-million-year-old stone tool from the Olduvai Gorge in Tanzania.

"The lump of grey rock does not look much but it is one of the oldest humanly made objects in the world and the oldest thing in the British Museum's collection," he says.

"It's the starting point for who we all are today."

What: Rembrandt's "The Night Watch."

Where: The Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam (Museumstraat 1; +31 20 6621 440).

When the Rijksmuseum reopened this year after a decade-long refurbishment there was no question about the key exhibit.

Wim Pijbes, the museum's director, told CNN that Rembrandt's "The Night Watch" "is the altarpiece of the Rijksmuseum. The whole place is arranged around this beautiful masterpiece."

The 1642 painting of Amsterdam's local militias is the only artwork in the museum with a trapdoor underneath, allowing it to be removed to safety in the event of fire or other danger.

What: The Marcus Aurelius statue.

Where: The Capitoline Museum, Rome (Piazza del Campidoglio 1, +39 060 608).

Rome's greatest treasures tend to be outdoors -- it's a giant open-air museum.

But Agnes Crawford, art historian and owner of Understanding Rome tours, reckons the equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius alone is worth the entrance fee to the Capitoline Museum.

"The giant, totally intact bronze is the most Roman of statues," she says.

"It's from the high period of empire so it's of the finest quality, and it's a heroic survivor of medieval 'recycling.'"

What: Filippo Lippi's Madonna and Child and the Two Angels.

Where: The Uffizi Gallery, Florence (Piazzale degli Uffizi 6; +39 55 238 8651).

The sheer size and grace of Michelangelo's "David" in the Galleria dell'Accademia makes it the most famous single piece in Florence. But Pier Carlo Testa, director of the Italian cultural walking tours company Artviva highlights Filippo Lippi's "Madonna and Child and the Two Angels."

"It's all in the way the artist has managed to depict the Madonna as modeled by his wife -- with every tenderly detailed feature, ever strand of hair, you can see he is in love with her," Testa says.

What: The Pergamon Altar.

Where: The Pergamon Museum, Berlin (Bodestrasse 3; +49 30 2 6642 4242).

Few pieces are great enough to have an entire museum named after them.

The Pergamon Museum in Berlin isn't exactly short of massive ancient monuments either -- but the Pergamon Altar trumps the rest.

Transported from modern day Turkey, this monumental stone altar dating back to the 2nd century BC cows visitors with its size, then draws them in with astonishingly detailed friezes depicting the battles between gods and giants.

What: Théodore Géricault's "The Raft of the Medusa."

Where: The Louvre, Paris (4 Place du Louvre; +33 01 40 20 53 17).

Courtney Obee Delaunay, art historian and docent for Context Travel, goes beyond the "Mona Lisa" to pick Géricault's monumental marriage of high art and journalistic sensationalism.

"The dramatic scene vividly depicts the makeshift raft holding the emaciated and even corpse-like survivors of French shipwreck The Medusa, abandoned by its politically appointed captain," she says.

"Géricault represents the figures in a very realistic, yet also heroically classical way. It creates the perfect bridge between earlier masterworks found in the Louvre and the early modern works on display at the Musée d'Orsay."

What: "The Saliera."

Where: Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna (Burgring 5; +43 1 525 240).

The Kunsthistorisches Museum is home to masterpieces by the likes of Vermeer, Rembrandt, Raphael and Caravaggio but Sabine Haag, the museum's director-general, points to Benvenuto's "Saliera" as the must-see.

"A unique work of goldsmith art, the complex pictorial program culminates in an allegory of the cosmos with the god of the sea and the goddess of the Earth, animals, the four winds and the four times of the day," says Haag of the piece returned to the museum this year after another decade-long renovation.

"'The Saliera' is a truly virtuoso piece -- we know from Cellini's autobiography that he hammered the figures from gold foil with every refinement he could imagine."

What: Picasso's "Guernica."

Where: Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sofía, Madrid (Calle de Santa Isabel, 52; +34 917 74 10 00).

Four of the 15 most expensive paintings ever sold are by Picasso, yet the work widely regarded as his greatest masterpiece would almost certainly smash all records if put up for auction.

Guernica's size -- 3.5 meters by 7.8 meters -- makes it unusual, but it's the political commentary about Nazi bombing during the Spanish Civil War and the layers of symbolism piled within that make it arguably the most famous artwork of the 20th century.

What: The Parthenon sculptures.

Where: The Acropolis Museum, Athens (15 Dionysiou Areopagitou Street, +30 21 0900 0900)

There's no greater symbol of Ancient Greek classicism than the Parthenon, and most of the treasures from Athens's hilltop temple are inside the Acropolis Museum.

Dr Tom Flynn, author of "The Universal Museum," says the Parthenon sculptures are the pinnacle of Greek high classical sculpture.

"Their location in the Parthenon Gallery of the New Acropolis Museums allows us to appreciate them in the context of the Parthenon itself. You can faithfully recreate their original disposition on the temple, which is visible from the gallery," he says.

What: Mantegna's "Dead Christ."

Where: Pinacoteca di Brera, Milan (Via Brera 28; 00 39 02 722 631).

"Leonardo da Vinci's 'Last Supper' is Milan's outstanding artwork, but it's on a convent wall, not in a museum," says Donald Strachan, co-author of Frommer's Italy.

His favored alternative is Mantegna's "Dead Christ," which was regarded as genuinely shocking when painted in the 1480s.

"It is brutal in its simplicity, unsentimental in its treatment of Jesus's pallid corpse on a slab and a masterclass in realistic foreshortening, which was a relatively recent innovation in art," Strachan says.

@highlight

Competition in museum world heats up with reopening of Dutch treasure house

@highlight

Greatest treasures not always where crowds are

@highlight

British Museum cites its oldest object -- a chopping tool

@highlight

In Florence, a Madonna portrait modeled on artist's beloved wife is alternative must-see(Rolling Stone) -- Since the 1999 debut of his hit series "Family Guy," Seth MacFarlane has been best known for his filthy fiefdom of anarchic, envelope-pushing cartoons.

Lately he's been expanding his empire, hosting "SNL," recording a Grammy-nominated album of standards and show tunes, and directing a Hollywood blockbuster, "Ted," in which MacFarlane gave voice to a horny, drug-abusing toy bear. His official coronation as a showbiz don came earlier this month, when he was announced as next year's Oscar host. But the 39-year-old confesses, "I love a good fart joke."

Seth MacFarlane Tapped to Host 2013 Oscars

Why do the Oscars frequently suck, and how will you make them better?

All of them have had redeeming qualities. It's about finding that balance between doing what I do but acknowledging that this is the Academy Awards, not the roast of Donald Trump. It's walking that line between old-fashioned showmanship and allowing it to be contemporary with a little bit of bite. Johnny Carson and Billy Crystal are two hosts who walked that line. There's a moment on "Family Guy" that's just Gene Kelly dancing with Stewie -- that's what we have to achieve, a dance between the traditional and the new.

Are you going to write the show with your "Family Guy" team?

The staff hasn't been assembled. But this is not going to be "Family Guy Meets the Oscars." Hosts who come in with a specific brand and try to turn the show into the brand, it never works. You have to adapt yourself to the Oscars, not vice versa.

For all its success, "Family Guy" is sometimes dismissed as frat-boy humor. Does that surprise you?

A lot of that comes, I think, from people who haven't actually seen the show. They're going with what they've heard. The show itself contains a degree of frat-boy humor -- there are fart jokes, there are shit jokes. But we try to include an equal amount of intelligent humor. If it makes you laugh, what's wrong with that? There's room for both highbrow and lowbrow.

'SNL' Recap: Frank Ocean, John Mayer and Seth MacFarlane Kick Off New Season

Louis C.K. has said he loves "Family Guy," but the show has also been mocked by "The Simpsons" and "South Park." Did you ever feel like you were on the outside of some comedy in-crowd?

At one point, that was the case. But the "Family Guy" crowd and the "Simpsons" crowd have become friendly over time. I thought the "South Park" episode making fun of us was funny and accurate. But what I don't understand is the personal venom that they spew in the press about the show and about me, where it's not in the context of a joke. That's a little baffling. They let loose with this vitriol in every interview I read with them. It'd be interesting to know where it comes from, because I don't know them.

As someone who pokes fun at pieties, what are your thoughts on the "Innocence of Muslims" video and the riots it provoked?

In all honesty, I glaze over with this stuff because it happens all the time over there. There's just constant boiling rage -- it's like, "What else is new?" It's just another round of religious-based fury. It's like following the presidential race. I'm yawning. I'm numb.

Review: 'Ted'

You're rebooting the Carl Sagan science show "Cosmos." Do you hope creationists tune in?

Among others. The show doesn't have an agenda. It's going to be educational. Science has become politicized, and that's an embarrassment. Evolution doesn't care whether you believe in it or not, no more than gravity does. I want to rekindle excitement over what we've achieved as a species with the space program. We can't afford to regress back to the days of superstition.

Surreal Kurt Cobain Tribute Staged at Art Basel

"Ted" was about a kid who retains a childhood fantasy into adulthood. You're unmarried, and you make your living in cartoons. Do you feel a bit like an overgrown kid?

Oddly, I don't relate a lot to that character. I never had a stuffed animal I wished would come to life. The story felt universal enough to resonate. But working in entertainment, you have to retain a degree of childishness. That's one reason Spielberg has been so successful: He's been able to maintain that sense of wonder into adulthood. I suppose that makes people like us a little more stunted than everyone else, emotionally.

This is from the October 25th, 2012 issue of Rolling Stone.

Copyright © 2011 Rolling Stone.

@highlight

MacFarlane has hosted "SNL," recorded a Grammy-nominated album and directed "Ted"

@highlight

MacFarlane: "You have to adapt yourself to the Oscars, not vice versa"

@highlight

"I love a good fart joke," the 39-year-old says(CNN) -- It's not specifically called a "birther" bill and it doesn't mention President Barack Obama by name, but proposed state legislation in Louisiana appears to be the latest attempt to keep alive arguments over whether Obama can prove he was born in the United States.

The proposed Louisiana legislation would require an affidavit to accompany documents, including a birth certificate and a sworn statement that identifies the candidate's place of residence for the preceding 14 years, for someone to quality for the presidential ballot. Similar requirements are set for other offices including Congress.

Bill co-sponsor state Sen. A.G. Crowe told CNN's "AC360" Thursday night that his constituents wanted the legislation, although he said he had no comment on whether Obama was born in the United States.

"The issue won't go away," said Crowe, a Republican.

Obama has been hounded by allegations since he began running for president in 2008 that he was not born in the United States.

Critics -- often called "birthers" -- contend, among other things, that Obama was born in his father's home country of Kenya. The U.S. Constitution stipulates that only "natural born" citizens are eligible to be president.

Obama, who is seeking re-election, has insisted that he was born in Hawaii, and arguments to the contrary have been repeatedly discredited in investigations by CNN and other organizations.

In an effort to counter the claims, Obama's 2008 campaign produced a "certification of live birth," a document traditionally accepted legally as confirmation of a birth.

Both the current Hawaii governor, Neil Abercrombie, a Democrat, and the previous governor, Linda Lingle, a Republican, have insisted that Obama was born in their home state.

Nevertheless, the issue remains politically potent among segments of the electorate and has served as a rallying cry for many of the president's opponents.

In a call to CNN's "American Morning," potential presidential candidate Donald Trump said of Obama's constitutional eligibility to be president: "We're looking into it very, very strongly."

Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, a Republican, has said he would sign the proposed legislation if it passes, according to the New Orleans Times-Picayune newspaper.

But a growing list of Republican politicians and strategists, including Rep. Michele Bachmann, Republican strategist Karl Rove, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Virginia, and former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a likely GOP presidential candidate, have distanced themselves from the "birther" issue.

Republican Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer on Monday vetoed similar legislation.

Nearly 75% of Americans believe Obama was definitely or probably born in the United States, according to a March 11-13 CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll.

More than four in 10 Republicans, however, believe the president probably or definitely was not born in America.

Fourteen other states are considering similar legislation this year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Measures have failed in three states -- Connecticut, Maine and Montana.

Obama touched on the issue Thursday night during a fundraiser with Hollywood luminaries at the Tavern Restaurant in Brentwood, California.

"You all got involved when the prospect of electing Barack Hussein Obama was slim," he said. "None of you asked for my birth certificate. It was a complete leap of faith."

Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET. For the latest from AC360° click here.

@highlight

NEW: President Barack Obama touches on "birther" controversy at fundraiser

@highlight

Louisiana considers a bill requiring presidential candidates to prove "natural born" status

@highlight

The Constitution stipulates only a "natural born citizen" can be president

@highlight

Some Republicans distance themselves from the issue(InStyle.com) -- It's been a big summer for wedded bliss: In the last few months, everyone from Penelope Cruz to Carrie Underwood to Emily Blunt has tied the knot. And, try as Chelsea Clinton might to keep the particulars under wraps, details of her upcoming nuptials have been slowly but surely leaking out. We're eagerly awaiting pictures of the former first daughter's gown -- rumor has it, she's wearing Vera Wang or Oscar de la Renta -- but in the meantime, we've decided to take a look back at the ten most iconic wedding dresses ever.

Jacqueline Bouvier  The future first lady (and fashion icon) wore a voluminous ivory silk taffeta gown by the designer Ann Lowe when she married John F. Kennedy in 1953. A portrait neckline and wide, embellished skirt emphasized Jackie's small waist, and an heirloom lace veil, which originally belonged to her grandmother, completed the super-romantic ensemble.

See all 21 best dressed celebrity brides

Gwen Stefani  Christian Dior designer John Galliano created this dip-dyed silk faille gown specifically for the singer's 2002 marriage to rocker Gavin Rossdale, and it's a triumph of personal style -- equal parts girlie and punk, just like the pop star herself.

Grace Kelly  In 1956, she played a princess onscreen in "The Swan" and then assumed the role in real life: The pearl-studded, long-sleeved gown she wore to marry Monaco's Prince Rainier was a parting gift from Grace Kelly's former studio, MGM. Conceived by costume designer Helen Rose--and constructed by three dozen seamstresses over six weeks -- the elaborate silk faille, silk tulle, and rose point lace confection was pure Hollywood fantasy.

InStyle.com: See celebrity-inspired engagement rings

Portia DeRossi Both of the brides wore Zac Posen at their 2008 ceremony: Ellen DeGeneres opted for a tailored ensemble consisting of white pants, a dress shirt, and a white vest, while DeRossi chose a dramatic (and beautiful) backless gown with a ballerina-inspired pale pink tulle skirt.

Lady Diana Spencer  Yes, her puff-sleeved, ruffled, silk taffeta gown -- decorated with lace, embroidery, sequins, and around 10,000 tiny pearls -- wasn't exactly understated. But then neither was anything else about Diana's royal wedding to Prince Charles in 1981.

InStyle.com: Stars' most memorable dresses

Marilyn Monroe  They seemed, to some, like a match made in heaven: the big-screen siren and the baseball star. While Monroe's marriage to Joe DiMaggio didn't even last a year, the fur-collared brown wool suit she wore to their 1954 ceremony at San Francisco's City Hall was utterly timeless.

Elizabeth Taylor  Taylor's Cleopatra co-star Richard Burton was her fifth husband. (And her sixth -- they remarried less than two years after their first divorce.) So it makes sense that, in 1964, she decided against a traditional white dress. Instead, Taylor opted for a round-necked daffodil yellow chiffon mini topped with a headdress made of white hyacinths and lilies of the valley. (She wore green to their do-over in 1976.)

InStyle.com: More celebrity couples who've tied the knot twice

Ivanka Trump  Donald's daughter was reportedly inspired by Grace Kelly's classic gown: She converted to Judaism in order to marry Jared Kushner in 2009, and required a slightly more covered-up style. Vera Wang was happy to oblige. "I seized on the chance to do a dress that wasn't naked," the designer said at the time.

Mia Farrow  At 21, she personified the adjective gamine: Her close-cropped hair perfectly complemented her delicate features. And the ensemble she wore to wed Frank Sinatra in 1966 -- a pale minidress paired with a short, boxy matching jacket -- likewise balanced sweet with chic.

InStyle.com: Exclusive photos from more celebrity weddings

Katie Holmes  Holmes once confessed that she fantasized about marrying Tom Cruise when she was a little girl -- and the ornate, off-the-shoulder Armani she wore to their 2006 Italian wedding may very well have been the sort of gown she imagined wearing. Adorned with Swarovski crystals, embroidery, and a silk train, and topped with a floor-length veil made of ivory tulle, this was a true dream dress.

See if your favorites made our list in our expanded gallery at InStyle.com

Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!

Copyright © 2010 Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

A Christian Dior designer created a dip-dyed silk faille gown specifically for Stefani

@highlight

The gown Kelly wore to marry Monaco's Prince Rainier was a parting gift from MGM

@highlight

DeGeneres and DeRossi wore Zac Posen at their 2008 ceremony(CNN) -- Monday night's third and final presidential debate was a bittersweet occasion for the Twittersphere. The previous two presidential debates, and one equally entertaining vice presidential debate, have provided rich material for the wits of Twitter. Their rapid-fire commentary turned what could have been dry television into deeply entertaining multi-screen experiences. As many pointed out on Twitter, the micro-blogging service is like Mystery Science Theater for live television.

This debate, which took place at Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida, is the last for the current election cycle, which will end when voters go to the polls on November 6.

The meme of the evening did not stem out of one candidate's gaffe, but from a well-executed zinger (the words "gaffe" and "zinger" will officially be retired on November 7). Responding to a criticism from Romney about the size of the U.S. Navy, Obama said: "You mentioned the Navy, for example, and that we have fewer ships than we did in 1916. Well, Governor, we also have fewer horses and bayonets, because the nature of our military's changed. We have these things called aircraft carriers where planes land on them."

Obama foreceful in final debate, Romney plays defense

The hashtag #horsesandbayonettes and parody account @Horsesbayonette quickly followed. Other popular moments included moderator Bob Schieffer slipping up and saying "Obama bin Laden," the repeated use of the word "tumult" and whether or not the U.S. should "divorce" Pakistan.

The volume of tweets was a bit lower this round, with 6.5 million tweets sent during the hour and a half event, according to Twitter. The previous debate had 7.2 million tweets, the first 10 million (a record for a U.S. political event).

Patrick W. Gavin -- I'm really going to miss you guys's live-tweeting of debates for the next four years.

Jeffrey Goldberg -- No event in the history of Boca Raton has started later than this debate.

tomfitzgerald -- Gotta love Lynn University's sense of humor. Students wearing t-shirts that say, "We've never heard of you, either." #lynnedebate

PeterLandau -- Our presidential candidates should be doping. This debate would be greatly improved by performance-enhancing drugs.

wheezywaiter -- This split screen is making it easy to imagine a Romney/Obama Siamese twin.

W. Kamau Bell -- President Obama has that "I have Bin Laden's head in a bag beneath the desk." look in his eyes. #mockthevote #debate

Donald J. Trump -- Stop congratulating Obama for killing Bin Laden. The Navy Seals killed Bin Laden. #debate

Scary Beans ‏-- Stop congratulating The Navy Seals for killing Bin Laden. Some guns and also some bullets killed Bin Laden. #debate

Andy Borowitz -- Both candidates' use of the numbers 1 through 5 underscores the importance of keeping Sesame Street. #debate

cody christman -- A 15 year old talking about the debate on twitter is like a Canadian discussing palm trees with a polar bear

David Fear -- "You clearly think the beer in question is less filling!" "No, no, that is not accurate, I clearly said it. Tasted. Great!" #debate

jamisonfoser -- Obama: "I know you haven't had a chance to execute foreign policy." FACT-CHECK: Romney organized multinational Luge competition.

Felix Salmon ‏-- Governor, I'll see you your Mali and raise you a Chad. You're not going to leave Chad hanging, are you?

BradMcCarty -- According to Twitter, the Giants are leading Mitt Romney in game 3.

Jon Mooallem -- Chose the baseball game. Somebody's actually going to win that.

Hank Green -- The Giants Game 7 is ensuring no one in San Francisco is watching the Debate. How is Mitt ever going to reach them!?

awsamuel -- America, if all you want is a president whose policy is "go after the bad guys", my 6-year-old stands ready to serve. #debate

Barack Obama ‏[Parody account] -- Wait, so Tumult isn't one of Romney's sons name? #debate

Ben Greenman -- Romney: "I'm not going to wear rose-colored glasses." As groovy as that would be.

Bill Dixon -- If life were good, Mitt Romney would say "binder full of NATO allies." #mockthevote #debate

david carr ‏-- Romney: Love me some drones. My drones will dronier than the drones we now have.

Arianna Huffington ‏-- So no daylight at all btw the two on drones and Afghanistan. This is more of a meeting than a debate.

michaelshure -- Latin America is great because it is a time-zone opportunity? WORST PANDER EVER #current2012

Matthew Reichbach -- Obama should have picked up a mic and dropped it after that #horsesandbayonets line.

Cory Byrom -- I saw Horses and Bayonets at SXSW back in 2010. They slayed. #debate

jonathanwald -- Lone debate correspondent for Horse & Hound finally has a fresh lede.

John Kerry -- I think POTUS just sank Romney's battleship

azizansari -- "What are you guys going to be for Halloween?" #BetterDebateQuestions

nickgillespie -- Governor, you get a phone call that Candy Crowley is on her way to moderate a debate. What do YOU do?

Some Dude -- Did we get married to Pakistan during a drunken weekend in Vegas?? Was Zach Galifianakas involved? #debates

kumailn -- To divorce Pakistan, you'd just have to say "divorce" three times. #islamjoke #lookitup #debate

anamariecox -- I went on an apology tour once and I was sorry I did.

Matt Binder -- "Don't say Obama Bin Laden." - Bob Schieffer preparing for the debate "Obama Bin Laden" - Bob Schieffer at the debate #debates

CNN's Doug Gross, John Sutter and Brandon Griggs contributed to this story.

@highlight

The final presidential debate elicited 6.5 million tweets in 90 minutes

@highlight

The breakout topic of the night was a line about "horses and bayonettes"

@highlight

Other trending topics included everyone loving teachers and if Obama went on an "apology tour"WASHINGTON (CNN) -- The Supreme Court on Wednesday lifted sanctions placed on the Navy over its underwater sonar testing, a setback for environmental groups that claimed the warfare technology was harming whales and other marine mammals.

An endangered blue whale surfaces off the coast of Southern California in July.

At issue in the 5-4 ruling was whether the Navy's need to conduct exercises to protect the country from enemy submarines outweighed concerns raised by environmental groups.

The case focused on whether the president had the power to issue executive waivers allowing such tests and whether federal judges can issue preliminary injunctions blocking them. The high court ultimately sided with claims of national security over environmental concerns.

Those environmental interests, said Chief Justice John Roberts for the majority, "are plainly outweighed by the Navy's need to conduct realistic training exercises to ensure that it is able to neutralize the threat posed by enemy submarines."

Roberts said a lower federal court "abused its discretion" by imposing a 2,200-yard perimeter for testing and ordering a shutdown of sonar use during surfacing exercises.

But in dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg warned that the ecological damage was significant.

"This likely harm cannot be lightly dismissed," she said, "even in the face of an alleged risk to the effectiveness of the Navy's 14 training exercises."

Justices David Souter, Stephen Breyer and John Paul Stevens also questioned the Navy's arguments.

The exercises have continued while the case was under appeal.

Environmentalists had sued the Pentagon over the practice, and a federal judge ordered major changes to the Navy's annual offshore training exercises in March.

President Bush had issued an emergency waiver to allow the exercises to go on without the filing of an environmental impact study, but the lower court ruling blocked the use of sonar. That federal judge, in ruling against the government last March, said it was "constitutionally suspect" for Bush to issue the national security exemption to allow skipping the impact study.

Military officials argued that the restrictions could hamper readiness in time of war, because new sonar technology is needed to detect increasingly sophisticated enemy submarines.

"This case was vital to our Navy and nation's security, and we are pleased with the Supreme Court's decision in this matter," Navy Secretary Donald Winter said. "We can now continue to train our sailors effectively, under realistic combat conditions."

One of the environmental organizations that sued the Defense Department told the justices that the exercises had been planned in advance and that the Navy was required under law to conduct more extensive environmental tests than it had.

The waters of southern California are home to dozens of species of whales, dolphins, seals and sea lions, nine of them federally listed as endangered or threatened. Federal courts have cited scientific studies and the Navy's own conclusions that high levels of sonar can cause hearing loss and disorientation in the animals.

In February, the U.S. Navy demonstrated for CNN its onboard procedures for turning down mid-frequency sonar when whales come within 1,000 meters and shutting it off completely when they approach 200 meters.

The sonar sounds like a "ping, ping" noise, and it can be reduced as necessary, officers said.

But environmentalists say that the sonar can hurt whales much farther than 1,000 meters away and that the noise created by the sonar "was like having a jet engine in the Supreme Court multiplied 2,000 times, compensating for water," attorney Richard Kendall told the justices.

Reacting to the ruling, Kendall said, "It is gratifying that the court did not accept the Navy's expansive claims of executive power and that two-thirds of the injunction remain in place."

In 2000, 16 whales beached themselves in the Bahamas, and the Navy concluded that too many sonar ships had been operating in a narrow underwater channel.

The service says it is funding $16 million in independent research to minimize sonar's effect on marine mammals.

@highlight

NEW: Navy secretary says ruling allows sailors to train under "realistic" conditions

@highlight

By 5-4 vote, Supreme Court allows Navy exercises in whale habitat

@highlight

Sound waves can permanently harm sea mammals, environmentalists argue

@highlight

Fleet's safety and need to train trump concern for whales, chief justice writes(CNN) -- It happens every four years, usually right around September.

Calls come in from all over the United States from people threatening to flee their homeland if a candidate they despise wins the Oval Office.

"That's the amazing thing, when they speak on the phone. They're adamant. They feel very, very strong about it," said David Cohen, a Montreal-based immigration lawyer. "'This government doesn't speak for me' is the language that we often hear."

As a partner at the Campbell Cohen firm, which specializes in immigration to Canada, Cohen says he has received these calls for decades. It sometimes makes him "feel like a therapist because they vent for a while, get this cathartic release."

But when it comes down to it, Americans don't move to Canada unless it's for a relationship or new job -- essentially, love and money.

Opinion: Where Obama, and America, go from here

Cohen says he can remember only three of four cases in more than 30 years that involved someone actually making good on their threat to move to Canada to escape an American president.

This election cycle, he said, most of the calls "tended to be conservative or Romney supporters. There were not as many from the other side, so maybe they had kind of a premonition."

It's all part of the election season's bluster cycle, and while partisan hot air is typical this time of year, this year's squabbling has been "palpably ugly," even if most of it is just talk, said Jerrold Post, director of George Washington University's political psychology program and author of "Political Paranoia: The Psychopolitics of Hatred."

"That's always been the case: more extreme talk than actions," he said. "You can entertain any idea you want to, but there's a difference between having an idea and acting on an idea."

"But," Post added, "throw enough ugly ideas into a pot and something is going to boil over."

Sure, Facebook and Twitter were rife with threats to leave the country if Barack Obama or Mitt Romney won, but we've also seen the more serious headlines.

Bryan Fischer of the evangelical group the American Family Association reportedly said last week, "I think there will be blood" if Obama wins. In north Georgia, the president of the Cottages of Woodstock homeowners' association, a residential community for the elderly, said he would shut the complex's gates for fear of "negative repercussions (that) may occur because of the results of the election," The New York Times reported.

In August, Lubbock County, Texas, Judge Tom Head warned that the country could descend into civil war if Obama was re-elected and, as the county's emergency management coordinator, he considered whether he'd have to "call out the militia" if Obama ordered U.N. troops to quell the uprising.

Opinion: Obama's critics, repudiated at last

More recently, after Tuesday's election results came in, real estate mogul and reality TV star Donald Trump called for "revolution!" and urged his 1.8 million Twitter followers to "march on Washington and stop this travesty."

He further called on them to "fight like hell and stop this great and disgusting injustice," while proclaiming the country was now in "serious and unprecedented trouble...like never before." Trump has since deleted the revolution missive.

Post noted that Trump was at the forefront of the so-called "birther movement," which falsely claims Obama wasn't born in the United States, so he wasn't surprised to see Trump sound off, but "the intensity of that was rather shocking."

Best Election Night tweets

Asked if he thought Obama's race played a part in the vitriolic nature of the polemics around the country, Post said it "seems to be an issue that was played upon, but you can certainly have hatred and delegitimization with two white candidates as well."

One place where race played a factor is Oxford, Mississippi, where Ole Miss students "exchanged racial epithets and violent, politicized chants" after Obama's re-election was announced, according to the student-run Daily Mississippian. University police had to "forcibly disperse" a crowd from a popular gathering spot on campus, the paper said.

A university statement said the crowd reached 400 people at its pinnacle, and there were only two arrests for disorderly conduct. School Chancellor Dan Jones was quoted as saying Ole Miss "universally condemned" the racial epithets and uncivil language, and he regretted that a few students had tarnished the reputations of those classmates "who are more representative of our university creed."

Obama makes history again

It appeared to be an isolated incident.

In Lubbock County, GOP chairman Carl Tepper chuckled when asked if Judge Head's ominous prediction about Obama's re-election had come to fruition.

"No unrest," he said. "Just a lot of disappointed people."

The staunchly conservative county voted more than seven to three for Romney, he said, so now the focus moves to strengthening the Republican Party and "carrying our message of self-reliance to the rest of the country."

"Republicans are pretty naturally a law-and-order-type people," he said. "I'm still satisfied America has this amazing, peaceful process of selecting government. No matter who wins, we still have our rights, our businesses, our schools, and life goes on. We'll get 'em next time."

So, there are no tanks rolling through the nations' metropolises, no disappointed partisans reaching for their rifles. As Tepper said, life goes on, as it does after each election cycle, despite the disappointment of those in the losing candidate's camp.

And those souls who swear they're abandoning this land for fear of Obama turning tyrannical in his second term?

Yeah, not happening.

Obama photo a social-media sensation

Cohen, the immigration lawyer, said that though the calls inquiring about Canadian citizenship will continue for the next few months, he feels Americans are simply too loyal to leave the country they love.

"I've had Americans tell me this: When your national anthem plays, the hair on their arms stands up, and that's not like most people in the world," he said. "Americans at the end of the day are just a very patriotic group, and it doesn't matter what side you're on."

Post said he hopes bipartisanship will take hold on Capitol Hill, but it won't be easy because each party is torn by conflicting ideals: catering to their bases and governing in the best interest of the people.

"It's hard to reach across the aisle and get slapped down, but that's what has to happen. There's a lot of wounds to heal," Post said.

No shortage of pressing issues for Obama's next term

@highlight

Montreal-based immigration attorney says Americans simply too patriotic to flee homeland

@highlight

Airwaves, social media filled with bluster, but expert says this year it's 'palpably ugly'

@highlight

Two arrested at University of Mississippi after racial epithets uttered at campus protest

@highlight

No unrest in Lubbock County, Texas, despite 'civil war' prediction by judge(CNN) -- Know your caucuses from your primaries? Your superdelegates from your Super PACs? As Republican presidential hopefuls battle to win the right to take on Barack Obama in November, we've defined the array of words and acronyms that will define this year's election.

Attack ads -- An ad that promotes another candidate's perceived weakness, rather than the good qualities of the candidate the ad wants you to vote for.

Battleground states -- Both sides concentrate their efforts on those states they want to keep from falling into the other's hands, and those they think they could take from the other party. States seen as safe will not see an influx of candidates or cash, as the White House hopefuls consider it better to spend their time and money in the battleground states. This time round, Florida -- center of the controversial 2000 election -- will again be a key state, as will Ohio and Pennsylvania.

Blue state -- Traditionally a Democratic-controlled state.

Caucus -- Local party members get together for an evening of debate before deciding who they will support for their party's presidential nomination. The process is open for all to see and takes place in someone's home or a town hall rather than a voting booth.

Debates -- Debates are held between the Democratic nominees, the Republican nominees, as well as in the presidential campaign between the Democratic and Republican candidates. Rules for answering and the format of the debate are laid down in advance, taking much of the spontaneity out of the debate. But they are still seen as important to the race, and each candidate's performance -- best answer, worst answer, even appearance -- is analyzed in the media for days after. The candidates for vice president typically have their own face-off.

Delegate -- A person chosen at local level to represent the state at the party's National Convention. They are there to support a particular candidate based on the results of the state primary or caucus.

Electoral College -- The Electoral College was created in the early years of the United States. Each state has a number of Electoral College votes depending on its population. California has 55, while a number of smaller states have only three. With the exception of Nebraska and Maine, all electoral votes are cast for the candidate that wins the state, no matter what the margin. A presidential candidate needs 270 Electoral College votes to win the election. The system can mean a candidate wins the popular vote but does not win the election.

Endorsements -- Come in three types: From celebrities, from newspapers and from political figures and organizations. Whether any endorsement sways voter opinion is debatable but all candidates fight hard behind the scenes to earn them. In this election, notable endorsements have included House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and business magnate Donald Trump coming out for Republican candidate Mitt Romney, and actor Chuck Norris endorsing Republican candidate Newt Gingrich. When newspapers give an endorsement, they usually do it in the form of an editorial in support of their candidate.

FEC -- Federal Election Commission enforces U.S. federal election law, discloses campaign finance information and oversees public funding of presidential elections.

Favorite son -- A politician winning support in a state because of connections to that state such as being born there or having held public office there.

GOP -- Grand Old Party, nickname of the Republican Party.

Magic Number -- The number of Electoral College votes a candidate needs in the general election, and the number of delegates a nominee needs in the primary process. In the general election, state wins translate into Electoral College votes based on the state's population. A candidate needs 270 Electoral College votes to win the presidency. In the nominating process, Republicans need 1,144 delegates and each state has its own rules on whether they are assigned as a proportion of the number of votes received or if they all go to the winner of the state vote. Democratic candidates need 2,025 delegates, usually earned as a proportion of state votes, but this time round there is no challenge to incumbent President Barack Obama.

Party national conventions -- A gathering of the party faithful to formally select the presidential and vice presidential candidates. Involves state delegations standing around a state banner and announcing that they come from "the great state of..." This year, the Democrats have their convention in Charlotte, North Carolina from September 3-6; the Republicans will have theirs in Tampa, Florida from August 27-30.

Primary -- Primaries are generally only open to party members. Democrats and Republicans vote for the candidate they want to be their party's presidential candidate. Republican and Democratic primaries do not have to be held on the same day.

Purple state -- A state that regularly swings from one party to the other.

Push polling -- Similar to an attack ad but disguised as opinion polling. During the course of the poll questions, spurious information or disinformation about a candidate will be mentioned to those being surveyed.

Red state -- Traditionally a Republican-controlled state.

Stump speech -- A stump speech is the candidate's form speech in which he mentions key policies, family background and asks for citizens' votes. It is generally repeated in the same form in state after state, county after county, with only minor tweaks for each venue.

Super Tuesday -- Super Tuesday is the biggest single day of the Republican presidential nomination process. This year, 10 states choose their Republican candidate for president, including Ohio, Massachusetts, and Virginia. More than 400 delegates are up for grabs on Super Tuesday, which takes place on March 6.

Superdelegate -- Members of the party hierarchy with an individual vote at the National Convention on who the candidate will be. Their vote does not have to reflect any primary result, or the popular vote of the party. They can pledge support to one candidate and then change their mind later.

Super PACs -- A controversial 2010 court decision swept away restrictions on the amount of money corporations can donate to political action committees (PACs). In the wake of the ruling, a new breed of PACs called Super PACs were formed that can receive unlimited contributions from corporations and unions to use to advocate for or against a candidate. While they are banned from coordinating their efforts with candidates, some Super PACs are run by their former aides or close associates. Super PACs spent $390 million in the 2010 elections and are expected to spend much more in the upcoming elections.

Tea Party -- A conservative, Republican-leaning political movement inspired by the Boston Tea Party in 1773, when colonists protested a British tax on tea by boarding ships in Boston Harbor and dumping tea overboard. The modern movement sprang up in 2009 as a protest over an Obama-backed $787 billion government stimulus package, and says it opposes excessive taxes and big government, and supports a strict adherence to the U.S. Constitution and to federal spending reductions. A number of Tea Party-backed candidates won political office in 2010.

Wedge issue -- A key issue used by one or both parties to show clear differences between the two parties or candidates. Wedge issues are often raised to get each party's "base" supporters out to vote. The abortion issue is used to get out supporters of a woman's right to choose, and supporters of the unborn child's right to life. Gun control is a wedge issue generally separating Democrats who often support stricter gun control legislation from Republicans who are generally against gun-control legislation.

@highlight

CNN defines the terms and buzzwords of the 2012 U.S. presidential election

@highlight

What's the difference between a red state, a blue state and a purple state?

@highlight

Find out who Chuck Norris endorsed in this year's Republican primary raceLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Carrie Prejean's lawyer gave Miss California USA executive director Keith Lewis what he said was a final warning to retract statements made about the former beauty queen or face a defamation lawsuit.

The lawyer for former Miss California USA Carrie Prejean, says the ousted beauty queen's good name is "tarnished."

Prejean, stripped of the Miss California USA title last week, "suffered severe emotional distress" and her reputation was harmed by Lewis, Charles LiMandri said in a letter sent Thursday to Lewis' lawyer.

LiMandri's letter also accused Lewis, whom he referred to as a "gay activist," of setting Prejean up to be fired because of her statements opposing same-sex marriage.

When Prejean, 22, was dethroned, Lewis said it was for "contract violations," including missed public appearances.

He told CNN's Larry King last week that it wasn't one thing Prejean did, but "many, many, many things."

"She came to us and said I'm not interested in your input; I'll make my own decision what I'm going to do," Lewis said. "You know, when you have a contract, when you're working for someone, you have a responsibility to follow through on what that requirement is."

Lewis told King it was clear "she was not interested in upholding the title or the responsibilities."

"Carrie Prejean's good name has been tarnished by your client's false and defamatory accusations," the letter from her lawyer to Lewis' said.

"Please view this letter as a last opportunity for Mr. Lewis to retract the defamatory statements made against my client and to seek to restore her good name," LiMandri said. "If he does not comply, I will have no alternative but to recommend that Ms. Prejean proceed to do so through litigation."

In response to the letter, Lewis issued a statement that said: "Mr. LiMandri obviously has never watched 'The Apprentice' if he believes that Mr. Trump could be so easily fooled. Facts are facts, and we stand by them."

LiMandri denied any contract violations, saying it was a "complete and utter pretext" for her firing.

The list Lewis gave to reporters of Prejean's missed appearances was "an outright fraud," he said.

Prejean "did not refuse reasonable appearance requests" that could "be expected to promote and further the intended purposes of Miss California USA," he said.

The beauty queen expected to be asked to attend "Rotary conventions and avocado festivals," not events Lewis suggested, LiMandri said.

"She did not think it was appropriate for her to accept Mr. Lewis' invitation to attend a gay documentary in Hollywood promoting same-sex marriage," he said. "It was not my client's job, as Miss California, simply to help your client promote his personal or business interests as a Hollywood agent and producer, or gay activist."

He accused Lewis of trying to make commissions off Prejean's appearances.

"Your client was trying to wrongfully profit off of my client's participation as Miss California, in violation of her contract, by taking 20 percent of any appearance fee she would earn, such as at the Las Vegas jewelers convention she attended at his request," LiMandri's letter said.

LiMandri cited a statement he said Lewis made during a May 15 conference call that "clearly shows that your client was trying to 'set-up' our client for termination" by relaying an offer to appear semi-nude in Playboy. Three people who worked for a public relations agency representing Prejean at the time heard it, he said.

"All three of those people distinctly remember Keith Lewis talking about sending Ms. Prejean an offer to do a Playboy photo shoot 'so when they take her title away, she doesn't sue me,' " he said.

LiMandri said Lewis -- and former co-executive director Shanna Moakler -- were "bound and determined to get her fired, and they have now finally gotten their way."

Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump announced last month that Prejean could keep her title despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage.

Trump reversed himself last week.

"I told Carrie she needed to get back to work and honor her contract with the Miss California USA organization, and I gave her the opportunity to do so," Trump said. "Unfortunately, it just doesn't look like it is going to happen, and I offered Keith my full support in making this decision."

@highlight

NEW: Pagaent director responds, "Facts are facts, and we stand by them"

@highlight

Attorney Charles LiMandri pens ultimatum to Miss California USA director's lawyer

@highlight

Carrie Prejean's lawyer says dethronement caused "severe emotional distress"

@highlight

"Please view this letter as a last opportunity" to retract statements, LiMandri writes(EW.com) -- Chuck Norris doesn't endorse presidential candidates -- he anoints political saviors.

The actor, an avowed Republican, explains at the outset of an epic editorial on WND that, "As a six-time undefeated middleweight world karate champion, I have a pretty good idea what makes a warrior." In the nearly 1,400 words that follow, the fiery-spirited, flame-haired Golden Boot Award winner lays out the "the trifecta of tyranny" that Newt Gingrich, his new favorite Republican candidate is facing.

Namely, foe Mitt Romney's massive funding, the dreaded mainstream media (MSM), and the "elite power mongering" forces within the GOP party itself. As you might expect, Norris's editorial is peppered with phrases that would make you think Gingrich is a ninja assassin under siege of a thousand enemies -- not a doughy former college professor. Check out the top five soundbites below.

Honorable mention: "[Nancy Pelosi] chapped my hide [with] her clear audacity, arrogance and vindictiveness when she vehemently retorted like the wicked witch of the west: 'Mark my words: That man will not be elected!'"

5. "Newt spanked (with great audience fanfare) CNN's John King at the South Carolina presidential debate... [and showed his] ability to shut down the power grid of the MSM."

4. "While Romney decries that he is not a Washington insider, it is amazing to me that he gloats over the roughly 72 Washington elite who endorse him compared with Newt's 11. Rather than a badge of honor, that's a thorn of shame."

3. "Personally, I feel the entire future debate system should be derailed from the media's control and played out exclusively on C-SPAN with questions being fed entirely via the Internet from citizens around the country." [In Chuck Norris's world, political debates should be argue-to-the-death cage matches in the style of "The Running Man" or "The Hunger Games."]

2. "We must send someone in there who will turn over the establishment to resurrect the principles of our founding fathers and restore our republic."

1. "One cannot, in any way, underestimate the grisly enormity of this triple-headed monstrosity. It is a Goliath of ginormous proportions. And let there be no doubt: Only heaven and earth combining their forces will overcome this gargantuan foe." [Bonus points for use of non-word "ginormous." Chuck Norris doesn't follow the rules of grammar -- he rules grammar.]

Considering the colorful language and battle-ready atmosphere permeating the GOP primaries, is there anyone better to throw his hat in the ring than Norris? Then again, given Norris's losing history of endorsements (Mike Huckabee in 2008, Ron Paul just last year), should he throw in the towel as a political kingmaker? Or would the world be a lesser place without his vivid verbal artistry? Also, now that Donald Trump has endorsed Romney, are you ready for the iron-fisted ginger to face off against the big-mouthed duck 'do?

See the full article at EW.com.

CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly

© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

Chuck Norris on Newt Gingrich: "I have a pretty good idea what makes a warrior"

@highlight

He lays out the "the trifecta of tyranny" that his new favorite Republican candidate is facing

@highlight

Norris's editorial would make you think Gingrich is a ninja assassin(CNN) -- Donald Trump's decision to let Miss California USA Carrie Prejean keep her title convinced Shanna Moakler to quit as head of the pageant's California organization.

Shanna Moakler talks with HLN's Mike Galanos about why she resigned as director of Miss California USA.

Moakler, a former Miss USA, said she could not stay with Trump's Miss Universe organization "when I no longer believe in it."

As the Miss California USA co-executive director, Moakler did not hide her displeasure with Prejean during the controversy over her same-sex marriage comments and the emergence of semi-nude photos.

Moakler spoke exclusively with Mike Galanos, host of HLN's Prime News, about why she resigned.

The following interview has been edited for brevity and clarity:

Galanos: Why the change of heart after the press conference?

Moakler: I wasn't really privy to what was going to be happening at the press conference. We were in Donald Trump's office, and we spoke with him briefly. Carrieand her family spoke with him briefly. We all got in and spoke together, and we were hashing things out. But I never really felt 100 percent, and I never really felt truly heard. I was hoping for the best.

After the press conference when I went back to my hotel room, I just really sat down with myself. I don't believe she is going to comply with the contract, and I wasn't really happy with what happened at the press conference. I slept on it, and I woke up the next morning and was watching "The Today Show." I was sitting there watching her basically still make excuses. My biggest problem is that she's never really taken responsibility for herself. She's constantly pointing the finger at everybody else.

Galanos: You're talking about the pictures?

Moakler: Yes, the pictures. I couldn't stand by it anymore, and on top of it, the lying continues. Our contracts as state licensees were basically made invalid. For me, it was just too much.

Galanos: When you say the lies, are you talking about the pictures where she says it was a windy day and the wind blew her top open?

Moakler: Yes, in that particular point. It's such a complicated story with so many factors weighing in. For me, it was always about the contract. I didn't go to New York to get her decrowned. But I was hoping at some point in time at that press conference that there would be some accountability and there wasn't.

Galanos: What happened in that meeting? Did you and Carrie talk it out? Did it get heated?

Moakler: There was tension [and] it was a little heated. It was the first time since Miss USA that we were all together in the room. She had read articles, I had read articles, she had seen interviews, I had seen interviews, there were feelings. At the end of the day, I've known Carrie for a long time. She stayed in my home, she was my friend. We cared about each other so there was a lot of hurt, but we were talking, we were working things out. It went very quickly.

Galanos: You say "you cared" [and that] she was your "friend." Is the relationship over?

Moakler: I'm a mother. I have three children, and I still care about Carrie. I think she's been exploited and used as a tool for some of these other people's agendas and these different organizations. My biggest complaint is that it was never addressed and it was never reprimanded. It makes my contract as a state director void for my contestants. She was rewarded for that, and I don't think that's fair.

Galanos: Let's back track to the beginning. When you heard that answer -- and you're a same-sex marriage proponent -- were you angry with Carrie? Did you want her to lose at that point? What was your reaction?

Moakler: I wasn't angry; I was a little hurt. A great deal of our sponsors are gay and have supported her. I did not physically go and see her after the pageant, but I did write her. I congratulated her. I told her I was happy that she stayed true to herself, but I also conveyed that I think she hurt some people that really loved and cared about her.

Galanos: Why can't someone give that answer to that question and still be Miss USA?

Moakler: She can, she absolutely can. But there were gay judges on her panel of judges, and there were some people that didn't like that answer. One of the things you have to take into consideration is your judges.

Galanos: Do you think she lost it because of that answer?

Moakler: No, and it's been shown through the scores that she wasn't winning in points at that particular point. This has never been about her opinion. We all want her to have her opinion. She is able, and this is where the First Amendment argument has come into this.

The thing is, this is a young girl who was on a public stage, and I don't think she was prepared or ready to handle the backlash of the other side, and there was another side that has the same right to voice their opinion of not liking what she said. There was no persecution. It's just that there are other people that are allowed to disagree.

Galanos: When you were in the office with Donald Trump and you're about ready to go to the press conference, he says "Carrie's keeping the crown." Did you object at that point?

Moakler: I knew she was keeping the title before going in there. I had said to him, "What happens if she continues to breech her contract?" And he said, "I'll fire her." I said, "What happens if more pictures come out?" He said, "I'll fire her." I thought he would convey that in the press conference, but I didn't see that. It was more finger-pointing and basically being honored again. It was a hard pill to swallow. You have to understand that taking big business in New York back to California makes it hard for me to run my pageant.

Galanos: Is there something you could have done to calm things?

Moakler: [If she had spoken to me after the pageant,] I would have stayed by her and supported her and found out what the next steps were that she might have wanted to take. I would have helped her with some of the media training. I would have made sure she was more educated on the topic she was speaking about so when she did do these interviews and she was handling all of this pressure and heated debates [that] she would be able to speak intelligently and clearly. She would be able to express her opinions. I would be able to convey to her how to understand why she's getting attacked and where these things are coming from. There were so many organizations that latched on to her, I didn't even stand a chance.

@highlight

Shanna Moakler says Carrie Prejean has not taken responsibility for herself

@highlight

She says there was "tension" when she met with Prejean and Donald Trump

@highlight

Moakler: Prejean has "been exploited and used as a tool"

@highlight

Prime News airs weeknights at 5-7 p.m. ET on HLN(CNN) -- At the foundation of many business empires is a well-stocked library.

From Warren Buffet to Donald Trump and Bill Gates, the world's best business brains have been inspired and transformed by books that not only address the business of making money, but of managing time, ethics and morality in business.

Strategizing supply chains, intelligent design, smart investment decisions and the power of positive thinking are just some of the critical business skills that top businesspeople have gained from reading books - in some cases lent to them by other business leaders.

Business genius, it seems, doesn't come fully formed but is learned, not just from one's own experience, but the experience of others. As 18th century physicist Isaac Newton once said: "If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of giants".

@highlight

Businessmen and women talk about a book that changed their thinking -- and sometimes their lives

@highlight

Warren Buffet, Donald Trump, Bill Gates and others talk about how their business ideas were shaped

@highlight

Some cite recent developments in business thinking while others return to the standard works of business literatureLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Carrie Prejean has filed a lawsuit against Miss California USA officials who stripped her of her title, accusing them of libel and religious discrimination for her views on same-sex marriage.

Carrie Prejean was stripped of her Miss California USA title earlier this year.

"We will make the case that her title was taken from her solely because of her support of traditional marriage," her attorney, Charles LiMandri, said in a news release.

Prejean stepped into controversy at the Miss USA pageant in April when, in response to a question from a judge, she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage. Prejean finished as first runner-up.

The complaint was filed in Superior Court of California against Miss California USA officials Keith Lewis and Shanna Moakler, as well as publicist Roger Neal.

It alleges that Prejean suffered because of "libel, public disclosure of private facts, religious discrimination, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress."

LiMandri had threatened to file a defamation lawsuit if Lewis did not retract statements he made about the former beauty queen. LiMandri's letter to Lewis' attorney also accused Lewis of setting Prejean up to be fired because of her statements opposing same-sex marriage.

When Prejean, 22, was dethroned in June, Lewis said it was for "contract violations," including missed public appearances.

He said then it wasn't one thing Prejean did, but "many, many, many things."

"She came to us and said I'm not interested in your input; I'll make my own decision what I'm going to do," Lewis told CNN's Larry King in June. "You know, when you have a contract, when you're working for someone, you have a responsibility to follow through on what that requirement is."

Lewis said it was clear "she was not interesting in upholding the title or the responsibilities."

After that interview, LiMandri penned a letter to Lewis' attorney saying, "Carrie Prejean's good name has been tarnished by your client's false and defamatory accusations."

"Please view this letter as a last opportunity for Mr. Lewis to retract the defamatory statements made against my client and to seek to restore her good name," LiMandri wrote.

He denied any contract violations by Prejean, calling those claims a "complete and utter pretext" for her firing. The list Lewis gave to reporters of Prejean's missed appearances was "an outright fraud," he said.

"She did not think it was appropriate for her to accept Mr. Lewis' invitation to attend a gay documentary in Hollywood promoting same-sex marriage," he said. "It was not my client's job, as Miss California, simply to help your client promote his personal or business interests as a Hollywood agent and producer, or gay activist."

Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump announced in May that Prejean could keep her title despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage.

Trump later reversed himself.

"I told Carrie she needed to get back to work and honor her contract with the Miss California USA organization, and I gave her the opportunity to do so," Trump said. "Unfortunately, it just doesn't look like it is going to happen, and I offered Keith my full support in making this decision."

@highlight

Carrie Prejean was stripped of Miss California USA title earlier this year

@highlight

Prejean claims she suffered because of officials' statements, actions

@highlight

Prejean was involved in controversy after statements about same-sex marriageThe humor at the 98th annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner went to the dogs.

President Barack Obama poked fun Saturday at everything, from the Secret Service scandal to the lavish spending by the Government Services Administration, to the upcoming general election.

However, it was a spoof about Mitt Romney and his dog Seamus that highlighted the president's monologue.

The joke recalled a political ad released by the Newt Gingrich campaign that took aim at Romney for admitting he once put his family dog in a cage and perched it on the top of his car.

"I know everybody is predicting a nasty election, and thankfully, we've all agreed that families are off-limits," the president said. "Dogs, however, are apparently fair game."

The president's punch line: An ad by a phony Super PAC that featured Romney on Air Force One with a dog cage on top of the aircraft and promoted dog freedoms, while warning of Obama's policy of dog socialism.

"Under his leadership, man's best friend has been forced into automobiles. Imagine the European-style socialism that he has planned for the next four years," the spoof ad said.

The president even poked fun at himself over recent criticism by the Romney campaign about revelations in his book, "Dreams From My Father," where he revealed he was fed dog meat as a boy in Indonesia.

"That's pretty rough. But I can take it, because my stepfather always told me, it's a boy-eat-dog world out there," Obama said.

The president referred to former vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin's recent guest hosting on "Today," saying it "reminds me of an old saying -- What's the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull? A pit bull is delicious."

The dinner was Obama's fourth as president. It has been a ritual in Washington since 1920, when it was first held to boost communication between the press and the president.

Journalists and news organizations were well-represented at the affair, and they brought famous faces in tow.

Among those in attendance Saturday were Claire Danes, Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd, Sigourney Weaver, Eva Longoria, Viola Davis, Kerry Washington, Rachel Zoe, Goldie Hawn and Josh Hutcherson.

The annual gala, also known as the "Nerd Prom," raises money for journalism scholarships.

While the dinner is notorious for its sometimes bawdy political humor, the president took a serious moment to recall the deaths of Anthony Shadid of The New York Times and Marie Colvin of the Times of London, "who made the ultimate sacrifice as they sought to shine a light on some of the most important stories of our time."

Shadid and Colvin died in February while covering the conflict in Syria.

Overall, Obama stayed true to the theme of the night -- humorous barbs. He joked about business tycoon Donald Trump, whom the president kidded at last year's dinner about pushing the president to release his long-form birth certificate.

"We gather during a historic anniversary. This weekend last year, we finally delivered justice to one of the world's most notorious individuals," Obama said to a packed ballroom at the Washington Hilton.

A photo of Trump was shown, rather than that of slain al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

Obama then went back even further in time.

"Four years ago, I was in a brutal primary battle with Hillary Clinton," Obama said. "Four years later, she won't stop drunk texting me from Cartagena," a reference to the city where Secret Service agents allegedly consorted with prostitutes.

The president also took aim at the scandal, itself: "I had a lot more material prepared, but I have to get the Secret Service home in time for their new curfew."

Obama, speaking before comedian Jimmy Kimmel, made light of a General Services Adminstration conference in Las Vegas that cost more than $800,000.

"Look at this party. We have men in tuxes, women in gowns, fine wine, first-class entertainment. I was relieved to hear it was not a GSA conference," Obama quipped.

He even chided Kimmel, star of ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"

"Jimmy got his start on the 'Man Show.' In Washington, that is what we call a congressional hearing on contraception."

Kimmel, who took the stage following the president's monologue, hit back.

"Remember when the country rallied around you in the hopes of a better tomorrow?" Kimmel asked. "That was hilarious."

Kimmel said there was a term for "guys like the president," and it wasn't two terms.

He said he told the Secret Service that for $800, he would stay away from jokes about the scandal.

"But they only offered $30," he said.

Nobody in the room was safe from Kimmel's barbs, which he fired at politicians, journalists, celebrities and corporate executives in attendance.

Kimmel praised Michelle Obama's work to combat obesity with her health initiative. The comedian then pointed out rotund New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to the first lady.

"Look, it's Chris Christie. Get him," Kimmel said.

Kimmel then took aim at Gingrich's weight. But Kimmel's fat jokes fell, well, flat with the former House speaker.

@highlight

President Obama says families are off-limits during election

@highlight

"Dogs, however, are apparently fair game," he says

@highlight

Highlight of the president's monologue includes a fake Super PAC ad about dog freedoms

@highlight

Jimmy Kimmel says there is a term for the president and it isn't "two terms"New York (CNN) -- Donald Trump's offer to buy the lower Manhattan site where a Muslim group plans to build an Islamic community center is just a "pathetic" attempt to get publicity, said the lawyer for one of the land owners.

Real estate mogul Trump made the offer Thursday in a letter to Hisham Elzanaty, an investor in the controversial Islamic center site. But Elzanaty does not consider Trump's proposal a real offer, attorney Wolodymyr Starosolsky said Thursday night.

Elzanaty has received other offers, but has declined them, the lawyer said. Elzanaty thinks the property might be worth more down the road, so he might hold on to it. Trump had offered 25 percent more than the current owners paid for it.

Elzanaty owns more than 51 percent of the property, and has no more than three partners, the lawyer said.

Should the proposed Islamic center be built? Share your thoughts

Trump's offer stipulated that, if a mosque is to be built, it will be located at least five blocks further from the World Trade Center site. He also said he would pay cash for the site, with an immediate closing.

The site is two blocks from where the World Trade Center stood before the September 11 terrorist attacks.

"I am making this offer as a resident of New York and citizen of the United States, not because I think the location is a spectacular one (because it is not), but because it will end a very serious, inflammatory and highly divisive situation that is destined, in my opinion, to only get worse," Trump wrote.

"Hopefully, something good can happen!" he concluded.

Trump, who starred in the U.S. reality TV show "The Apprentice," has invested in New York real estate for decades. His management company, The Trump Group, owns a number of high-rises in Manhattan and operates casinos in Atlantic City and Las Vegas, as well as several golf courses.

The proposed Islamic center, known as Park51, is slated to include a variety of facilities, including a prayer room, a performing arts center, gym, a swimming pool and other public spaces.

Critics of the center say it is an affront to survivors of the September 11 attacks.

Supporters of the project, including New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, cite First Amendment rights and the need to express religious tolerance.

CNN's Marcia Biggs and Ben Rooney contributed to this report.

@highlight

The majority land owner didn't consider Trump's proposal a real offer, lawyer says

@highlight

Trump had offered to pay 25 percent more than what the owners paid

@highlight

The site is two blocks from where the World Trade Center stood

@highlight

Critics of the center say it is an affront to survivors of the September 11 attacks(CNN) -- The former Miami Beach mansion of Italian fashion designer Gianni Versace sold for $41.5 million Tuesday, an auction company said.

Fisher Auction Company and the Jills, a Coldwell Banker Residential Real estate team, announced the sale of the Casa Casuarina, formerly the Versace Mansion.

Auctioneer Lamar Fisher said the buyer was Joe Nakash, whose family owns the Jordache denim brand. The family also owns the Victor Hotel next door and they told Fisher that they plan on turning the mansion into a boutique hotel.

Donald Trump -- the real estate magnate and TV personality -- placed the second highest bid on the mansion at $41 million, according to Rhona Graff, a senior vice president at the Trump Organization.

Versace was shot dead outside the mansion in 1997. He purchased the property five years earlier and invested $33 million on expansions including a 54-foot mosaic pool lined with 24-karat gold.

"We are very pleased to have had the opportunity to manage the sale of this iconic property," Fisher said. "This beautifully appointed estate drew significant attention from prospective buyers from around the world."

Jill Hertzberg of The Jills called the property the "crown jewel of Miami."

"Jill Eber and I are delighted that we were able to be a part of this once-in-a-lifetime sale," she said.

@highlight

NEW: Donald Trump placed second-highest bid, the Trump Organization says

@highlight

New owner plans to turn mansion into boutique hotel

@highlight

Versace was shot dead outside mansion in '97

@highlight

Mansion called "crown jewel of Miami"(CNN)  -- Donald Trump visited "Larry King Live" on Wednesday night to tout his new book, "Think Like a Champion." In a wide-ranging interview, Trump shared his thoughts on how to prosper in this economy, Bernie Madoff, how President Obama is doing, taxes and his daughter's love life.

On CNN's "Larry King Live" Wednesday night, Donald Trump said it's a great time for entrepreneurs.

The following interview has been edited for brevity and clarity:

Larry King: Why this book?

Donald Trump: A lot of people wanted me to do a book right now about these troubled times that we're all in.

And it's been sort of interesting. They're great times, as an entrepreneur. I don't think I've ever seen better times as an entrepreneur. But the world is a mess, and the country is a mess.

King: Why [is it a] good time for an entrepreneur and not necessarily for others?

Trump: Well, this is a time for smart people. This is a time for entrepreneurial people. This is a great time for people like me -- and maybe people like you, Larry, because I know you're a great investor. ...

Weren't you involved with [Bernie] Madoff?

King: A little bit, yes. You weren't, huh? How did you resist him?

Trump: Honestly, I got lucky. He might have duped me like he did a lot of other people. He is a disaster. But now he's where he belongs.

King: With troubled times like this for the average guy, is this the time to think like a champion?  Watch Larry King's entire interview with Donald Trump »

Trump:  This is the best time to think like a champion. As an example, the house is being foreclosed. You go see your bank -- maybe you can make a deal, maybe you can't. But you can make a deal with a bank on another house, and much better than the one you're living in. ... They'll do any deal to get rid of their product.

They have houses by the thousands. And you go see that bank and you make a deal.

King: How do you assess [Barack Obama]?

Trump: Well, I really like him. I think that he's working very hard. He's trying to rebuild our reputation throughout the world. The previous administration was a total disaster, a total catastrophe.

And, you know, the world looks at us differently than they used to. ... He was handed a pretty bad deck of cards. And I'm not saying I agree with everything he's doing. ... I do agree with what they're doing with the banks. Whether they fund them or nationalize them, it doesn't matter, but you have to keep the banks going.

King: Do you assess him as a champion?

Trump: Oh, yes, he's a champion. I mean, he won against all odds. When he first announced, people were giving him virtually no chance. And he's just done something that's amazing.

King: Is fear harmful in this [economic] situation, Donald, or is it realistic?

Trump: Well, I think it's realistic. People are afraid. They're scared. They're losing their jobs. They're losing their homes. And certainly there is a word known as fear, and there's nothing wrong with being fearful.

But you have to do something about it. And that's what I write about in the book. You go out. You go to the right place, where there's better employment. You get a trade where they really need people.

King: Have you had to lay off people? Because it seems everyone has had to do that.

Trump: It's a sad thing, but whether it's "The Apprentice" or not,  the fact is you have to say to some people: "You're fired." The world is different.

King: You said that this is a good time to buy real estate. What about financing? What if you want to buy and you can't get the mortgage?

Trump: Larry, this is a great time to buy real estate.

And as far as financing is concerned, the only financing you should be thinking about is seller financing. If the seller won't give you financing, don't do it, because the banks are not doing their job. They're not providing financing for deals.

King: New York state is planning a so-called millionaire's tax. It would affect those with incomes starting at $300,000. Yea or nay?

Trump: Well, it's a ridiculous thing. Albany is going to destroy  ... this state. And they are raising taxes on rich people. The rich people have lots of options, Larry. One option is Palm Beach, Florida. You move down to Palm Beach; it's not the worst thing in the world. I don't have to live on Fifth Avenue. I don't have to live on Park Avenue.

It's hard, psychologically, for me to leave, but very easy physically.

King: Why don't patriots want to pay taxes?

Trump: Well, I don't know that that's necessarily unpatriotic. I think they want to pay taxes. Obviously, you have to pay taxes. But they want to pay a reasonable tax, and they don't want to see the money squandered. Money in this country is being squandered.

King: OK. But then we would debate reasonable.

Trump: Well, you always debate reasonable. I think unreasonable is the war in Iraq. I mean, there's $1 trillion right there. And, more importantly, thousands of people -- both on our side and the other side -- hundreds of thousands of people killed and maimed and so badly hurt, I think it's just a shame. Now, to me, that's unreasonable.

And, by the way, ... Saddam Hussein did not knock down the World Trade Center.

King: Has the economy at all cramped your lifestyle? Anything you had to change?

Trump: No, because I think I understand life. I think I understand how to live. I'm enjoying my life. I don't really live in an as extravagant a way as people think. As an entrepreneur, this is the best time I think I've ever seen in business.

King: There's buzz that your beautiful daughter Ivanka is engaged or getting engaged. What's up?

Trump: She has a beautiful boyfriend. He's a great guy, but they are not engaged.

King: Would you like them to? Is he the kind of guy you would except as a son-in-law?

Trump: He certainly is a wonderful guy. But it's all up to her. If she's happy, I'm happy.

@highlight

Trump advises to take advantage of low prices, get seller to do the financing

@highlight

Trump: Obama rebuilding U.S. reputation; previous administration was a disaster

@highlight

He's mad about possible higher taxes in New York, says he could move to Florida

@highlight

Trump likes the guy his daughter is dating, but she's not engaged(CNN)At this year's Miss Universe pageant, a loss may have overshadowed the win.

While Miss Colombia, 22-year-old student Paulina Vega, took home the crown in Miami on Sunday night, social media was more concerned with the fate of Miss Jamaica.

When politics and beauty pageants collide

There were boos when 22-year-old model Kaci Fennell was announced as the fourth runner-up. Viewers immediately weighed in with why they felt Miss Jamaica had been robbed of the title, citing everything from her race to her short haircut amongst the flowing manes of other contestants.

First runner-up was Miss USA Nia Sanchez.

Women from more than 80 countries competed in the event, which is owned by Donald Trump. TV journalists Thomas Roberts and Natalie Morales co-hosted.

@highlight

Audience members booed when fourth place was announced

@highlight

Some had theories as to why Miss Jamaica didn't win

@highlight

Miss USA was first runner-up(CNN) -- Ted Cruz's excellent birther adventure has been a moment of absurdity, irony and comeuppance, for him and for many in his party.

Cruz, the freshman GOP senator from Texas and a tea party darling, has made a name for himself as an incendiary obstructionist in the usually genteel Senate. He may run for president in 2016. Which means, under the Constitution, that he has to be a "natural-born citizen."

He is indeed a natural-born citizen -- of Canada. Born in Calgary to an American mother, Cruz learned that he has unwittingly held Canadian citizenship all his life. What was in doubt, thanks to a few birthers from the right and some mischievous eggers-on from the other side, was whether he could also claim American citizenship by birth. It turns out he can, given his mother's status.

Initially, Cruz issued affronted denials that he was anything but American. Then, upon discovering that he was "technically" also Canadian, he scrambled to disavow and formally renounce any tie to his native land -- even though dual citizens can technically become president. Cruz's comical predicament illuminates three things about the politics of American identity in this era of demographic flux.

First, it is a reminder that people of color, whatever their party, are still more likely than whites to be presumed foreign. John McCain, born in the Panama Canal, and Mitt Romney, born to a father born in Mexico, never faced conspiracy theories about whether they were ersatz Americans or Americans with divided loyalties. Barack Obama, of course, did. And for a moment, at least, so did Cruz.

They're the lucky ones. Millions of regular Americans who don't care about their qualifications for the presidency are nonetheless subjected daily to suspicion based on their non-whiteness.

Second, those who live by race-tinged insinuations can die by them, too. Cruz felt that he had to act swiftly to nip rumors of his outsiderness in the bud because he realized just how viciously they could spread out of control. He realized this because it was members of his own party who had incubated and propagated such insinuations about whether our son-of-a-Kenyan president was insufficiently committed to the American way.

What goes around comes around, and when Donald Trump (who declined to rule on Cruz's status because he hadn't "studied it enough") is an arbiter of national authenticity, nobody is safe.

Perhaps the most delicious aspect of the Cruz citizenship flap is that his form of alleged alienness was Canadian. What could be worse, for an anti-government rugged individualist, than a blood association with the land of free health care and the home of brave bureaucrats? What could be worse, for a party struggling to diversify, than to have this Latin-Texan hopeful smothered in the blandness of a Canadian Eh?

Perhaps Ted Cruz, chastened by his brush with un-American identity, will proceed with greater empathy for those on the margins of American life. Perhaps leaders in his party will learn to forego the short-term electoral benefits of whipping up white fear of decline and white mistrust of people who may seem foreign. And perhaps activists from the other party will resist the temptation to brand any nonwhite conservative as a traitor or a fraud.

Or perhaps not. What is certain is that the rest of this century will bring only more and more visible instances of political leaders who embody the ethnic complexity and impurity of citizenship in the United States. The party that figures out best how to embrace that complexity and convert it into an asset will be not just the majority party. It will be the most American party.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Eric Liu.

@highlight

Eric Liu: Ted Cruz's excellent birther adventure has been a moment of absurdity, irony

@highlight

Liu: It is a reminder that people of color are still more likely to be presumed foreign

@highlight

He says John McCain and Mitt Romney never faced conspiracy theories on their origin

@highlight

Liu: Maybe Cruz now will have greater empathy for those on the margins of American life(CNN) -- By night the skyline of Batumi shines with illuminated buildings, showing a side of the Georgian city it wishes the whole world to see.

But the bright lights it hopes will attract international tourists are quite different from what the town was not long ago.

After the collapse of the Soviet Union the city was "one of the darkest places in the world", according to Georgia's president Mikhail Saakashvili.

"(It was) one of the worst run, run by a local warlord... with all these SUVs and people running around with Kalashnikovs and dark glasses," he said.

Now, rather than gunshots, a frenzy of construction echoes through the city with new hotels and apartment blocks rising up among the low-rise, old buildings.

Donald Trump is one of the latest high-profile investors to back the rejuvenation of the city with plans for a new Trump residential tower.

Batumi is the focus of Georgia's effort to attract 4 million visitors to the country this year, almost as many as the country's entire population.

Send in your pictures from Georgia

For now it is mostly visitors from the Caucasus region and Turkey, though Russian tourists are returning since Georgia scrapped their visa requirement last year. Gambling is legal, which provides another lure to potential tourists.

"They come here to combine leisure and their holiday with gambling. So lots of Turkish, lots of Chinese come here not only during the summer but also the winter to just have fun," said Maia Sidamonidze, chairwoman of Georgia's Department of Tourism, who added she would like the city to aim high and become a Las Vegas of the Caucasus.

Many residents in Batumi are thrilled at the new lease of life their city is getting and the new jobs the investment is bringing.

But some of the city's older generation worry that the changes taking place in the city are not going to be for their benefit.

"The future and present of this country is for young people who studied, who know English; everything is for them" said Nodar Khinigadze, who has been unable to find employment since losing his job in shipping years ago.

"It is good that they have jobs but for people like me who trained during Soviet times, it is hard to find our place."

CNN's Eye On series often carries sponsorship originating from the countries we profile. However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports.

@highlight

Batumi is Georgian city on coast of the Black Sea

@highlight

Investment in tourism and real estate is transforming the city

@highlight

Casinos add an extra lure for potential tourists

@highlight

Georgia's president called it "one of the darkest places in the world" after end of USSRWashington (CNN) -- The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday searched desperately for ways it could avoid a sweeping ruling in what one justice called a "tinderbox" legal fight over perhaps the most vexing diplomatic issue -- unrest in the Middle East.

Menachem Zivotofsky, 12, and his family want the American citizen's passport to say he was born in Jerusalem, Israel. But the U.S. State Department, ignoring a congressional law, will not allow the boy to list his country of birth on the document, only Jerusalem.

The Obama administration maintains a strict neutrality policy over the holy city's sovereignty. Both Israelis and Palestinians claim Jerusalem as their capital, but the international community does not recognize either position.

The Zivotofskys framed the case as a "small gesture" for a boy, which does not implicate the U.S. government's ongoing efforts to secure a binding, lasting peace settlement for the troubled region.

Supreme Court to decide if boy can list Israel as passport birthplace

At issue is a classic tug of war between the executive and legislative branches of government -- specifically whether a federal law that explicitly directs the State Department how to record the birthplace of an American citizen on a passport impermissibly infringes on the president's power to recognize a foreign sovereign.

More than 50,000 Americans were born in Jerusalem since the law was passed in 2002.

In a brisk hour of oral arguments, the nine justices seemed especially torn about how to decide the case, many looking for a way perhaps to rule narrowly. Many on the bench were at odds over whether this mix of politics, diplomacy and religion will result in de facto recognition of Israel's unilateral sovereignty over Jerusalem.

"You say that this isn't recognition," Justice Anthony Kennedy told the Zivotofskys' attorney. "So the ultimate conflict is not before us and therefore, the government's policy, which says that this is recognition, should be given deference and it trumps."

Justice Antonin Scalia said, "Congress is entitled to do what it is authorized to do under the Constitution, even when that contradicts" with the views of the executive branch, And as far as the passport issue, "the fact that the State Department doesn't like the fact that it makes the Palestinians angry is irrelevant."

Case heard during growing unrest in Jerusalem

The debate comes during a week of unrest in Jerusalem, with daily protests near sacred sites and fears of a third intifada, or Palestinian uprising.

Temple Mount crisis fuels unrest in volatile Jerusalem

The case could have broader implications over U.S. foreign policy. The justices raised ongoing debates over those born in British-controlled Northern Ireland; whether Taiwan should be recognized as independent of China; and the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine over disputed territory, including Crimea.

Jerusalem's Old City is the heart of the region, a holy symbol to the three major Abrahamic religions -- Christianity, Islam and Judaism. That tiny area -- just a third of one square mile -- contains the Temple Mount, Western Wall, Church of the Holy Sepulcher, Dome of the Rock and Al-Aqsa Mosque.

It has been destroyed twice -- and attacked, besieged and captured more than 100 times. Canaanites, Hebrews, Arabs, Greeks, Romans, Persians, Crusaders, Turks and the British have all laid claim to the land.

Its status today remains one the thorniest issues blocking a comprehensive Mideast peace agreement, with both Israel and the Palestinian people claiming sovereignty. During the 1948 war, the western part of the city was annexed by the newly formed nation of Israel, and the eastern part annexed by Jordan.

Israel then captured the eastern part during the 1967 Six-Day War. It considers East Jerusalem part of its "undivided capital," but most of the international community deems the annexations illegal and a part of Palestinian land. The Israeli government is based there, but no foreign embassies are.

The city is home to Ari and Naomi Zivotofsky. The couple and their two oldest sons were born in the United States, but the family migrated to Israel a decade ago, and in October 2002 the youngest, Menachem Binyamin, was born.

"We're very proud of the fact that he was born in Israel and that we live in Israel and it's the modern state of Israel," Ari Zivotofsky told CNN. "Religiously and historically, that's very significant."

The father said his son -- who has been at the center of this legal fight for 11 of his 12 years -- frequently reminds his siblings he is the one Zivotofsky born in their current home. The boy is preparing for his bar mitzvah.

Bush's 'signing statement'

Three weeks before Menachem was born, Congress gave American citizens born in Jerusalem the individual discretion to ask that Israel be listed on passports and consular reports, where it says "Place of Birth."

President George W. Bush signed the bill but issued an executive "signing statement" indicating he would not comply. The law, he said, "impermissibly interferes with the president's constitutional authority to conduct the nation's foreign affairs and to supervise the unitary executive branch."

The State Department's official Foreign Affairs Manual still reads: "For a person born in Jerusalem, write Jerusalem as the place of birth in the passport. Do not write Israel, Jordan or West Bank for a person born within the current municipal borders of Jerusalem."

It is not the first time Congress and the White House have clashed over the region. The American Embassy remains in Tel Aviv over U.S. lawmakers' objections.

Competition to speak among justices

During Monday's oral arguments in the case, Zivotofsky v. Kerry, there was much competition on the bench to speak. Chief Justice John Roberts at one point had to referee and allow Kennedy, with his seniority, to go first.

"You want us to say in our opinion that this is not a political declaration?" Kennedy asked attorney Alyza Lewin of the 12-year-old congressional law. When told that was true, "Well, then, I'm not sure why that Congress passed it then."

Kennedy offered a compromise, suggesting what a select number of U.S. passports might say: "The place of birth on this Jerusalem-born citizen's passport has been listed as Israel at the holder's request. This designation is neither an acknowledgment nor a declaration by the Department of State or the President of the United States that Jerusalem is within the borders of the State of Israel."

But Justice Elena Kagan -- who along with Justices Stephen Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor seemed most supportive of the administration's assertions -- wondered "(i)f Congress then passed a law saying that (hypothetical) statement had to come off the passport, could Congress do that?"

"Why is it that it's OK for Congress to say something that hasn't happened, meaning to say that someone born in Jerusalem is actually born in Israel?" Sotomayor added. "I mean, they can self-identify all they want, but can they do that?"

Representing the government, Solicitor General Donald Verrilli framed the issue in larger terms, saying the congressional law in effect would "force the executive branch to issue official diplomatic communications that contradict the position of the United States."

Justice Samuel Alito asked, "But is that really true? Could Congress pass a law saying that every passport issued to an American citizen must list the place of birth, including country, and that for this purpose, the country is the nation that issued the birth certificate to that individual? Could Congress do that?"

Zivotofsky's attorney, Lewin, concluded by saying granting the boy's request would be a "nonissue" and have no long-term effect since the Jerusalem passports -- by simply listing "Israel" would be indistinguishable from those who were born elsewhere in Israel.

"This seems a particularly unfortunate week to be making this kind of, 'Oh, it's no big deal' argument," said Kagan, referring the recent violent protests in Jerusalem.

"History suggests that everything is a big deal with respect to the status of Jerusalem. And right now Jerusalem is a tinderbox because of issues about the status of and access to a particularly holy site there. And so sort of everything matters, doesn't it?"

A ruling in the case is due by the spring.

@highlight

A boy, 12, and his family want his passport to say he was born in Israel

@highlight

Ignoring law passed in 2002, U.S. State Department policy is to list only Jerusalem, not Israel

@highlight

At issue is a classic tug of war between the executive and legislative branches

@highlight

Justices weigh arguments in case that could have impact on U.S. policy in Mideast(CNN) -- An extra day once every four years doesn't really give travelers much more time to play, but it's an excuse for the hospitality industry to create special Leap Year travel offers. (Each year is actually 365 days plus about 6 hours. An additional day is added to the calendar every four years to keep the calendar in sync with the seasonal year.)

Swim into San Diego. If you stay three nights at the Hotel Palomar in San Diego, the fourth night is $29. Also included are a $29 daily food and beverage credit and morning coffee and tea service in the hotel living room. The rate must be booked by February 29. Rooms start at $229 and the fourth night charge is $29. The offer is valid for travel between February 22 and March 7. Call (888) 288-6601 or book online and include rate code PLPY.

iReport photo challenge: Take a leap!

Stay up all night at Disney. For the first time ever, both Disneyland in Anaheim California and Magic Kingdom Park will be open on Leap Day for 24 hours starting at 6 a.m. February 29 (Select attractions, entertainment and services will be available.) If you can't take mid-week trip to the Happiest Place on Earth, you can still enter to win a vacation package every day through February 29.

Donald Trump at a discount. Trump Hotel Collection properties in New York, Chicago, Las Vegas, Panama, Toronto and Waikiki are offering 29% off all suites booked on February 29, 2012, for stays between March 1 and April 30, 2012.

Daily rates for suites before the discount for March 1-April 30 start at: Trump International Hotel in Chicago from $458; Trump SoHo New York from $645; Trump International Hotel in New York from $995; Trump Ocean Club International Hotel in Panama from $289; Trump International Hotel in Toronto from $695; and Trump International Waikiki Beach Walk from $619; Trump International Hotel Las Vegas from $169. Reservations can be made online or by calling (855) 878-6700.

A stroll through Harvard Square. Think smart and bookmark February 29 at 2:29 pm to make your reservation at the Charles Hotel during the hotel's one-hour online flash sale. The Charles is offering 29% off new reservations for deluxe rooms and suites made between 2:29 p.m. and 3:29 p.m. Limited blackout dates apply. Standard daily room rates start at $199.

Commit to Paris now, travel later. Book your reservation at the Hotel de Buci by February 29 for a visit anytime in 2012, and upgrade your room for an additional 29 euros (based on availability at check in). Also enjoy breakfast for two for 29 euros. Daily room rates start at 260 euros. Book at the hotel's special leap year site.

@highlight

The Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is having a Leap Year flash sale

@highlight

Several Trump hotels are offering 29% off suites booked on February 29

@highlight

Hotel de Buci in Paris is offering discounted upgrades on rooms booked by Leap DayEditor's note: The Rev. Donald Cozzens is writer in residence and adjunct professor of theology at John Carroll University in Cleveland, Ohio. A priest of the Diocese of Cleveland with a doctoral degree, he is the author of several books on the Catholic Church, including "Sacred Silence: Denial and the Crisis in the Church" and "Freeing Celibacy," both published by Liturgical Press. For another view on this topic, read here.

The Rev. Donald Cozzens says the debate over celibacy for priests will be around for decades.

(CNN) -- It's an issue that simply won't go away. In spite of signals from the Vatican discouraging even discussions of obligatory celibacy for Catholic priests, the almost 1,000-year-old rule is under the microscope. And it will be for decades to come. Here's why.

In the Catholic tradition, even though sex is cast as sinful unless expressed in the conjugal embrace of husband and wife, it is held as fundamentally good, a part of God's creation.

The church even holds that marriage (including spousal lovemaking) is a sacrament -- something sacred that contributes to the sanctity of husbands and wives. In light of this official teaching, it is dawning on many Catholics that mandatory celibacy for priests, a canonically imposed discipline of the church, is precisely that -- a discipline.

They are asking, "How is it that a discipline of the church has been allowed to trump a sacrament of the church?" In effect, the church is saying that should God call a man to the priesthood, God will not, at the same time, call that individual to the sacrament of marriage. It's right to ask, how does the church know this?

Public opinion surveys indicate that most Catholics, priests included, believe the discipline of celibacy needs a serious review. Recently the retired archbishop of New York, Cardinal Edward Egan, observed that obligatory celibacy is open for discussion. It is not, Egan noted, a matter of dogma.

For decades now, bishops from Asia, Europe and the Americas have asked Vatican officials to consider optional celibacy for priests. The church's official response is consistent and succinct: As a precious gift from God, the discipline of celibacy for priests will remain in place.

This, in spite of the inherent paradox lying just below the claim that the gift of celibacy is a precious gift of God to the priesthood and the church: How can a gift be legislated? The church answers that if a man is called to the priesthood, God will grant him the gift of celibacy. Many priests today wonder how church leaders know this. Reading the mind of God in this matter --  in any matter of church discipline -- is risky business.

More and more Catholics today are coming to understand that celibacy as a universal law for priests had its origins in the 12th century and that during the church's first millennium, priests and bishops --  and at least thirty-nine popes -- were married.

Still, most well-read cradle Catholics are surprised to learn that St. Anastasius, pope from 399 to 401, was succeeded by his son, Pope St. Innocent I, and that a century later Pope St. Hormisdas' son, St. Silverius, also was elected to the papacy.

Even in our secular world, it's common to speak of church-based ministry as a calling, a vocation. Isn't it possible that God would call an individual to the priesthood and to the sacrament of marriage? God apparently did so for more than half the church's history. How do we know that God isn't doing so today?

For some years now I've been teaching in the religious studies department at John Carroll University in Cleveland. I've asked dozens of serious, healthy young students if they have given any thought to being a priest. They seem flattered by the question. With only one exception, each has answered, "Yes, I've thought about being a priest, but I want a family."

There are, of course, other factors, urgent and pressing, that will keep the celibacy issue alive. The Catholic priesthood is aging. The average age of active priests hovers at 60, and if retired priests are factored in, it is considerably higher. Moreover, Catholic seminaries are lucky to be half full.

Parish staffing challenges alone will press for a review of the celibacy rule. Catholic bishops simply do not have enough priests to meet the pastoral and sacramental needs of the Catholic faithful. Closing and merging parishes may offer some temporary relief for overworked priests, but the shortfall of priests will continue to challenge the vitality of Catholic parishes and the health of Catholic clergy for decades to come.

But the most human, existential factor that should keep the celibacy issue on the table is the spiritual and emotional health of priests. Celibacy really isn't the issue -- mandatory or obligatory celibacy is.

There are many priests who do possess the gift of celibacy -- it is their "truth" so to speak -- and their humanity, warmth and pastoral effectiveness give abundant evidence of their authentic celibate lives. But there remain other priests who believe deep down they are called to the priesthood but not to celibacy. And for these men, the burden of mandated celibacy threatens their spiritual and emotional well-being. The priesthood may be their "truth," but mandated celibacy wraps them in a cloak of loneliness and struggle.

I don't know Father Alberto Cutie. He appears to have touched the lives of many and preached the gospel with power and conviction. I suspect he feels called by God to be a priest, but not a celibate priest.

Surely he knows that Easter Rite Catholic priests are allowed to marry and that the church welcomes into the priesthood married convert ministers from other Christian denominations. Surely he knows that in many parts of the Catholic world, clerical celibacy is openly flouted, and church authorities choose not to notice.

I wonder if church officials understand the burden they place on the shoulders of a man who believes he is called to priestly ministry but not to celibacy. Certainly, a married priesthood will have burdens of its own and, sadly, scandals of its own -- infidelity and abuse among others. But it should be left to the individual priest and seminarian to determine whether or not he is blessed with the gift of celibacy.

A mandated "gift," after all, is really no gift at all.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the Rev. Donald Cozzens.

@highlight

The Rev. Donald Cozzens: Celibacy is 1,000 years old but not intrinsic to the church

@highlight

Many popes were married in the first millennium of the church, Cozzens says

@highlight

Cozzens says church views marriage as sacred; why should priests be denied it?

@highlight

Cozzens: Celibacy is a gift that should be optional, not mandated by the church(CNN) -- The Ashes is not a sporting event -- it is an obsession.

Since 1882, England and Australia's cricketers have fought, wrestled and spilled blood in one of the world's fiercest rivalries.

Whether it be on the rugby field or on the cricket pitch, these two countries only care about one thing -- winning.

On Wednesday, when England and Australia go head to head in cricket's biggest contest, the Ashes, two countries will hold their collective breath and prepare for a brutal battle.

It seems perverse that a game, which pauses for tea, and has the possibility of not having a winner after a five day contest, can stir such fierce emotion.

But for these two countries, thousands of miles apart, the yearning for victory could not be greater.

Rivalry

It's a rivalry which encompasses everything good, and sometimes bad, about sport.

It's about pride. It's about passion. It's about blood, guts, victory at all costs.

But it's also about respect, a love of the game and the realization that these two nations are forever intertwined through one of sports greatest and most dynamic rivalries.

Then there's the history.

There's Captain James Cook discovering Australia in 1770 and the settling of British prisoners in Australia 18 years later.

Add to that the brotherhood and bond between the two countries in time of war and the union of the Commonwealth.

And why not throw a shared monarch into the mix too?

United by history, divided by sport. It's one rivalry which threatens to remain eternal.

So when when the players of England and Australia walk out at Trent Bridge, with the words of William Blake's Jerusalem ringing in their ears, they will know that the battle has begun.

The CNN Ashes guide

To understand the birth of this great rivalry requires a glance at the past.

After enduring a dismal defeat by Australia on home soil at The Oval in August 1882, English cricket was left in a state of shock and embarrassment.

A newspaper, the Sporting Times, carried a satirical obituary of English cricket, which stated that: "The body will be cremated and the ashes taken back to Australia."

When England traveled to Australia for the return series, it gained revenge with captain Ivo Bligh awarded a small terracotta urn to symbolize the winning of the Ashes.

That small urn is arguably the most precious prize in world cricket with Australia holding it on 31 occasions to England's 30.

Controversy

There has been no shortage of drama during Ashes encounters -- but some are better remembered than others, although not always for the right reasons.

The most controversial Ashes series remains that of 1932-33, which was known as "Bodyline" after England captain Douglas Jardine ordered his bowlers to bowl straight at the bodies of their opponents.

It was a tactic which caused huge uproar, with Australian batsman Bert Oldfield suffering a fractured skull as England's bowlers showed no mercy.

A 4-1 defeat was difficult to take for Australia and enshrined an extra edge to an already intense rivalry.

Stars

Some of the most famous names in cricket have played in Ashes Test matches -- but there are some which are synonymous with this particular battle.

One of those is Ian Botham, widely regarded as England's biggest Ashes hero having had a Test series named after him.

"Botham's Ashes" which took place in 1981, produced one of the most spectacular moments ever witnessed in an Ashes series.

After resigning as captain just days earlier following an opening Test defeat, England were on the cusp of going 2-0 down in the series.

A dismal start to the second Test at Headingley left Australia tantalizingly close to victory -- but Botham's heroics defied all the odds.

An unbeaten 149 from 148 deliveries gave England hope, forcing Australia to score 130 to win the match.

But the tourists only managed 111 -- handing the victory to England, which eventually went on to win the series.

Australia dominated between 1989 and 2003 -- winning eight consecutive series.

The undisputed team of the decade in the 1990s and early 2000s, Australia boasted several world class players such as Shane Warne, Glenn McGrath, Ricky Ponting and brothers Steve and Mark Waugh.

Then there was wicketkeeper Adam Gilchrist, who scored the second fastest century in Test match cricket during Australia's 5-0 whitewash of England in 2006-7.

But Australia's and indeed the world's greatest ever batsman, is widely acknowledged to have been Donald Bradman.

'The Don' scored 5,028 runs in Ashes contests during his career from 1928-1948 and finished with an average of 99.94.

Australia have also dominated with the ball with Warne the leading wicket taker in Ashes cricket with 195, while McGrath claimed an impressive 157.

Recent history

While, England might be favorites to win this series, it's important to realize it wasn't always this way.

When the 2005 series came to England, Australia was hoping to win its ninth consecutive Ashes series.

A routine victory in the opening Test appeared to confirm its status as favorite before a narrow two-run defeat at Edgbaston drew England level.

A crucial England victory at Trent Bridge in the fourth Test, coming in between two drawn games, gave the host nation its first series win since 1989.

It was the series which introduced Kevin Pietersen to the world stage and led to Andrew Flintoff establishing himself as favorite with cricket fans across the world.

Flintoff's 24 wickets and 402 runs were integral to England's success

But his next venture did not go so smoothly as he captained England during its tortuous 5-0 whitewash defeat in Australia in 2006/7.

That result left a huge scar on English cricket as Australia humiliated its rival in ruthless fashion.

But England bounced back in 2009, winning the home series, before achieving its first victory on Australian soil in 24 years following a 3-1 win in 2010-11.

The players

For the players of both teams, playing in the Ashes is the pinnacle. It means everything.

There is no greater honor for an English or Australian cricketer -- the stakes are at their highest and victory ensures sporting immortality.

But where there are great gains to be made, there are also great losses which can be suffered.

And while Australia may not be at its strongest, England is not taking anything for granted.

"It's a bit of a dream come true starting an Ashes series at home in front of all your family and friends at Trent Bridge," said England bowler Stuart Broad, who plays for Nottinghamshire.

"But it's all about winning, because if you lose, you look back at that match with horrible memories. But if you win, you have very fond memories, so it's an advantage for us as a team.

"You know what Australians are like. They are tough characters who love to win and you would be disappointed if they didn't come out with a lot of fight.

"You'd be disappointed if there wasn't fire in their bellies in an Ashes series anyway."

Australia might start the series as underdogs but its captain, Michael Clarke, is confident his players can provide a shock result.

"I know especially back in Australia, this is the pinnacle of an Australian cricketer, to play Test cricket in England, be part of an Ashes series and I'm sure there will be judgments made on our performances, and as captain of the team you should be accountable," said Clarke.

"I've said for a while now that we come here as underdogs but that hasn't affected our preparation and it won't affect our performance either.

"We know it's going to be tough but I know our boys are up to the challenge.

The fans

England's cricket team enjoys unparallelled support in international cricket with is fans universally known as "The Barmy Army".

Created in 1994 by three friends, the "Army" now boasts over 5,000 members and arranges tours across the world to watch England compete.

Singing, often accompanied by Billy Cooper, a classically trained trumpet player, adds some color, while the chanting can often provide some light entertainment -- unless you're an Australian.

The Barmy Army has a reputation for going after Australia's players with bowler Mitchell Johnson the unfortunate victim during the 2010-11 series.

Australia's fans, known as 'The Fanatics' will be hoping to have something to shout about following two consecutive defeats.

The two sets of supporters groups play a cricket match against each other during every series with England coming up on top this time around.

Where to watch

The five Test matches are taking place throughout England with the opening contest at Trent Bridge, Nottingham.

Following that, the series will move to the Home of Cricket, Lord's, in London, before moving up to Manchester, Durham and back to London.

The English Cricket Board (ECB) has agreed a deal for cricket fans living in mainland Europe and Latin America to watch the series on YouTube.

Star Men

While one captain Cook changed the tide of history in 1770, another is hoping he can make his own mark by putting Australia to the sword.

England captain Alastair Cook enjoyed an outstanding 2010-11 series in Australia, scoring 766 runs. He has more than 7,500 runs to his name and is hoping to win the Ashes for the first time since replacing Andrew Strauss as captain.

The host nation will also be relying on fast bowler James Anderson, who has emerged as one of the most talented players in world cricket. Anderson, who is particularly adept at swinging the ball in either direction, has taken 307 Test wickets in his career -- a number which ranks him joint-third in the all-time list of England bowlers.

For Australia, much depends on the experience of captain Michael Clarke, who has only recently recovered from injury. In his 24 Test matches as captain, he has excelled with the bat at an average of 66.

End game?

England is the favorite to win its third consecutive Ashes series -- a feat which not long ago would have sounded almost impossible given Australia's dominance in the 1990s.

Now, with Australia no longer the force it used to be, England expects. The pressure to deliver is on, the nation awaits the opportunity to taunt the old enemy once more.

But whichever team comes out on top, the world will surely be treated to another epic encounter -- just weeks before both teams do it all over again, this time in Australia.

This is one obsession which won't be ending anytime soon.

Australian cricket coach axed ahead of Ashes

@highlight

England and Australia will compete for The Ashes in a five-match series

@highlight

England is favorite to triumph after winning the past two editions

@highlight

Australia dominated during the 1990s and early 2000s

@highlight

Contest and rivalry has been running since 1882(CNN) -- Joan Rivers is getting the "Hollywood" funeral she wanted, "a huge showbiz affair with lights, camera and action."

Kathy Griffin, Sarah Jessica Parker, Whoopi Goldberg, Donald Trump, Diane Sawyer, Barbara Walters and Joy Behar were among the A-list to D-list celebrity friends seen arriving for the private service inside Manhattan's Temple Emanu-El Sunday.

The highlight was Howard Stern's vagina joke, Fox News correspondent Geraldo Rivera told CNN afterward.

"It was exactly the show Joan wanted -- hilarious, irreverent," Rivera said.

Rivers, 81, died Thursday in New York's Mount Sinai Hospital, a week after she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest during a medical procedure at a clinic.

Joan Rivers: A pointed, pioneering comedian

She talked about her mortality and what she wanted at her "showbiz" funeral in her 2013 book, "I Hate Everyone ... Starting With Me."

She called for paparazzi and publicists "making a scene" outside the funeral, which she said should "be Hollywood all the way." In fact, Fifth Avenue was lined with more television crews, live reporters and fans than would gather for most Hollywood premieres.

Inside the temple, Rivers wanted entertainment. "I don't want some rabbi rambling on; I want Meryl Streep crying, in five different accents. I don't want a eulogy; I want Bobby Vinton to pick up my head and sing 'Mr. Lonely.' "

Instead of Vinton singing his 1964 hit, she had the New York Gay Men's Chorus and a song list including show tunes such as "That's Entertainment," "Nothing Like a Dame" and "What a Wonderful World." They closed with "Big Spender."

Joan Rivers: In her own words

Speakers included New York Post gossip columnist Cindy Adams, a longtime friend of Rivers, and "Inside Edition" host Deborah Norville.

"It was Joan all the way," with orchids filling the 2,000-seat sanctuary, Norville said after the funeral. "You can't see the altar because there were so many flowers."

A rabbi offered an opening prayer after the show tunes, followed by a songs from Broadway star Audra McDonald. People magazine reported that McDonald sang "Smile," a favorite of Rivers. The song's lyrics captured the feel of the service: "Smile, though your heart is aching. Smile, even though it's breaking."

Actor Hugh Jackman sang "Quiet Please, There's a Lady on Stage," People reported.

Rivers' daughter, Melissa, read a letter she wrote in which she pretended to be her mother's landlord. She said her mother was late on the rent and had torn down a wall without permission because she wanted more space.

The service ended with the New York Police Department's bagpipe band leading the procession out of the temple to the tunes of "New York, New York," and "Give My Regards to Broadway."

Rivers wrote in her book that she wanted to "look gorgeous, better dead than I do alive," dressed in a Valentino gown and with a Harry Winston-designed toe tag.

"And I want a wind machine so that even in the casket my hair is blowing just like Beyonce's," she wrote.

The raspy-voiced comedian was a household name. Brash and sassy, she poked fun at herself and the world in sometimes vicious, but witty, zingers.

She was as quick-witted as she was sharp-tongued, saying things everyone may have been thinking, but few were brave enough to voice.

"My mother's greatest joy in life was to make people laugh," her daughter said last week.

"Although that is difficult to do right now, I know her final wish would be that we return to laughing soon."

Rivers had been on life support at Manhattan's Mount Sinai Hospital, where she was transported after she stopped breathing at the Yorkville Endoscopy clinic on August 28.

Rivers was undergoing an apparently minor elective procedure at the clinic when she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest, according to the New York Fire Department.

Paramedics took her by ambulance to Mount Sinai Hospital, about a mile from the clinic, where she was initially listed in critical condition.

The state health department is investigating whether there was any malpractice by the doctors or staff at Yorkville Endoscopy, according to New York law enforcement officials.

No criminal investigations are currently under way in Rivers' death, the officials said. The clinic has not responded to repeated calls from CNN about the state's investigation.

Share your memories

CNN's David Shortell contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: "It was exactly the show Joan wanted -- hilarious, irreverent," Geraldo Rivera says

@highlight

NEW: Broadway star Audra McDonald sings one of Rivers' favorite songs, "Smile"

@highlight

Rivers, 81, was hospitalized after suffering cardiac and respiratory arrest at a clinic

@highlight

She was on life support, and died ThursdayChicago (CNN) -- Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich arrived at a Colorado federal prison Thursday to begin serving a 14-year sentence on a corruption conviction, a spokesman for the Bureau of Prisons said.

"This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do," he told a crowd of sign-wielding supporters outside his Chicago home Wednesday before reporting to prison. "But this is the law and we follow the law."

He was convicted of corruption in June 2011 after a jury returned 17 guilty verdicts against him. Among other allegations, he was accused of trying to profit as he considered whom to appoint to take Barack Obama's open Senate seat.

Blagojevich called his impending prison stint a "dark and hard journey," and said he should have been more humble.

"We are so grateful and will never ever forget your kindness to us," he told the crowd, which occasionally chanted slogans such as "Free our governor."

His wife, Patti, remained cinched under his arm, squeezing back tears as the former governor spoke.

"This, as bad as it is, is part of a long and hard journey that will only get worse before it gets better," Blagojevich said, telling his wife that he loved her.

He'll serve his sentence at Federal Correctional Institution Englewood, southwest of Denver.

"Governor Blagojevich has always stood up and stood tall. He hasn't hid. And he has truly enjoyed being out in public. He never considered 'sneaking' out of Chicago and miss an opportunity to say goodbye," his spokesman Glenn Selig said earlier.

"It's difficult to put into words the challenges he and his family now face. But he draws strength from the incredible support he continues to receive from the people of Illinois and beyond."

Blagojevich's past statements have been noteworthy for their bluster. In a defiant news conference in April 2010, he called his accusers "liars" and "cowards," and directly challenged a prosecutor.

Blagojevich also accused U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald of hiding taped evidence that would prove his innocence during that news conference.

"I challenge Mr. Fitzgerald ... Why don't you show up in court tomorrow and explain to everybody, explain to the whole world why you don't want the tapes that you made played in court?" Blagojevich said to reporters at the time.

"I'll be in court tomorrow. I hope you're man enough to show up," he added, referring to Fitzgerald.

Prosecutors said court-authorized wiretaps caught Blagojevich offering Obama's Senate seat in exchange for personal gain, including a job with a nonprofit or union organization, corporate board posts for his wife, campaign contributions or a post in Obama's administration.

He expressed frustration, according to prosecutors, that Obama transition officials were "not willing to give me anything except appreciation."

"I've got this thing and it's (expletive) golden, and, uh, uh, I'm just not giving it up for (expletive) nothing. I'm not gonna do it," prosecutors quoted Blagojevich as saying.

Blagojevich also considered appointing himself to the post, mulling whether he might be better off being indicted as a senator rather than governor, and saying contacts he would make in the federal job would benefit him later, according to prosecutors.

Aside from the charges of trying to sell the Senate seat, prosecutors also accused Blagojevich of using his position to obtain financial benefits for himself, his family and his campaign in exchange for jobs, contracts and appointments to state boards to supporters.

They accused Blagojevich of accelerating the scheme in 2008 to accumulate funds before a new state ethics law would have limited his ability to raise money from people and companies that were doing business with the state.

Despite months of professing his innocence in impromptu news conferences, on Twitter and even on Donald Trump's show "Celebrity Apprentice," the ousted Illinois governor did not take the stand in his own defense during his trial.

CNN's Rich Porter contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich arrives at a federal prison

@highlight

He says goodbye to supporters in Chicago

@highlight

On Thursday, he begins serving a 14-year sentence on a corruption conviction

@highlight

The federal prison is southwest of Denver(CNN) -- "Celebrity Apprentice" will stay on the NBC prime-time schedule even if Donald Trump hits the presidential campaign trail, the network's entertainment chairman said Sunday.

The show's "big success" is "due in part" to Trump, Bob Greenblatt said, but he predicts it can go on without him.

"If he decides to run for president and is unavailable to do the show, we will bring the show back and there will be somebody else sitting at the head of the boardroom table," NBC's Bob Greenblatt said. "Who that is, we're not even going to really entertain because I'm still hoping we will have Donald in the seat."

Trump, who has flirted with a 2012 presidential bid, is expected to make his intentions known on the final episode of the reality show's current season.

NBC has enjoyed a ratings bump from the Trump presidential buzz, Greenblatt said.

"We couldn't be happier," he said. "There may be headaches down the road but at the moment we're feeling really good about it."

While he wants Trump to be available to host "Celebrity Apprentice," Greenblatt said, "It is the right and privilege for every American-born citizen in this country to run for the highest office in the land.

"Nothing would make me happier to see somebody reach that dream," he said.

The show will fill the 8-10 p.m. ET slot on NBC's Sunday night schedule for the 2011-12 season, he said.

CNN's Henry Hanks contributed to this report.

@highlight

NBC renews "Celebrity Apprentice" despite Donald Trump's possible White House bid

@highlight

If he runs, somebody else will sit "at the head of the boardroom table," NBC's Bob Greenblatt says

@highlight

Trump says he'll make his intentions known at the end of the current season(CNN) -- Flamboyant former NBA star Dennis Rodman and three members of the famed Harlem Globetrotters arrived in North Korea Tuesday to "entertain and inspire" with their basketball skills while they film a TV show.

"I come in peace. I love the people of North Korea!" Rodman, 51, said on Twitter Tuesday.

The weeklong visit comes at a time of heightened tension between the United States and North Korea, a result of Pyongyang's pursuit of a nuclear program. Just days ago, North Korea threatened "miserable destruction" in response to routine military exercises planned between South Korea and the United States.

North Korea provoked Western condemnation earlier this month with an underground nuclear test that was preceded by the launch of a long-range missile capable of transporting a warhead in December.

Could Rodman's visit, which a statement from the Harlem Globetrotters calls "ambassadorial," help cool down this international hot spot?

Rodman tweeted that he was "looking forward to sitting down with Kim Jung Un," known to have been a huge basketball fan when he was a teenage student in Switzerland.

"The whole world for him was just basketball all the time," a former classmate of North Korea's supreme leader told CNN after he assumed power after the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, in late 2011. He is believed to be about 29 years old.

Rodman, whose nickname is "Worm," said he was "honored to represent The United States of America."

"I'm not a politician. Kim Jung Un & North Korean people are basketball fans. I love everyone. Period. End of story," he tweeted.

His knowledge of geography and geopolitics may be a little off, though, judging from one message.

"Maybe I'll run into the Gangnam Style dude while I'm here," he said. Psy, the artist who made the smash hit song and video, is from South Korea.

"Our aim is to entertain and inspire children everywhere," Globetrotters CEO Kurt Schneider said. "Every child deserves that opportunity."

It was unclear whether Rodman, who is accompanied by Globetrotters Bull Bullard, Buckets Blakes and Moose Weekes, will be taken to North Korea's countryside, where aid groups say malnutrition is rampant. According to Human Rights Watch, hundreds of thousands of people remain enslaved in prison camps, which are "notorious for horrific living conditions and abuse."

The trip was arranged by the producers of an HBO show that premieres in April, the team said. The documentary series is hosted by Vice magazine founder Shane Smith and executive produced by HBO commentator Bill Maher.

When Rodman finishes his North Korean mission, he'll travel to New York to work with a reality TV supreme leader, Donald Trump, for a season of "All-Star Celebrity Apprentice."

@highlight

The United States and North Korea are at odds over North Korea's nuclear ambitions

@highlight

Former NBA star Dennis Rodman tweets he's "looking forward to sitting down with Kim Jung Un"

@highlight

The North Korean leader is known to be a huge basketball fan

@highlight

The trip was arranged by the producers of the HBO show "Vice"NEW YORK (CNN) -- New York's iconic Plaza Hotel will lose a figure nearly as synonymous with it as Eloise when its longest-serving doorman retires Thursday after 46 years on the job.

Ed Trinka, whose retirement coincides with his 65th birthday, joined the hotel 1963.

Ed Trinka, whose retirement coincides with his 65th birthday, joined the hotel's staff in 1963 as a teenager. He spent 40 years at the fabled lodging's Fifth Avenue entrance, relocating to its doorway facing Central Park South during the property's renovation and partial conversion to condominiums several years ago.

Now as much a Central Park South fixture as the horse-drawn carriages that line the park's southern perimeter, the gregarious Trinka is known as the "mayor of 59th Street." On a recent afternoon, he seemed to know every other passerby, exchanging a constant stream of hellos with chauffeurs and doormen from adjacent tony apartment buildings and, of course, the Plaza's residents.

Over his more than four decades manning the Plaza's entrance, Trinka has met countless celebrities -- or "all of them," as he puts it. After his first celebrity encounter at the hotel with the Beatles, he's catered to a long procession of big names, including Joe DiMaggio, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Liza Minnelli.

Marla Maples, ex-wife of one-time Plaza owner Donald Trump, would regularly peck Trinka on the cheek when she saw him. Trinka says he has an autographed photo of Richard Nixon -- a token of gratitude from the former president -- hanging on proud display at his home.

Trinka says he has thoroughly enjoyed his lengthy stay at the portal to history and glamour. "I never had a bad day in all the years."

Nonetheless, with all those years at the hotel under his belt, Trinka felt it was time to "bow out gracefully."

As he transitions to retirement, Trinka says he'll miss the front-row view of Central Park and the hotel's clientele -- the "greatest people in the world." He also concedes he'll miss "the women."

The building's inhabitants are not eager for his departure.

"He's a gentleman, refined -- you don't find these people anymore," lamented resident Joan Spain.

Trinka's replacement, Jimmy O'Connell, is keenly aware of the large shoes he'll have to fill, saying he'd be satisfied if he "could be half the doorman" Trinka is.

The hotel will bid farewell to Trinka in characteristically grand fashion on Thursday afternoon. After a champagne send-off in the hotel's landmarked Oak Room, its management will present him with an opportunity to view the Plaza from the vantage point of the countless guests he's greeted over the years: He'll be given a free stay at the hotel.

In addition to a trove of anecdotes about celebrities, Trinka acquired something else during his tenure at the Plaza: a new name.

Years ago, the hotel gave him a nametag that mistakenly read Edward, even though his full name is Edwin. He came to embrace the errant nametag, neglecting to correct people when they called him Edward and even naming his own son Edward.

@highlight

Ed Trinka, who joined the hotel in 1963, turns 65 and retires after 46 years on the job

@highlight

The gregarious Trinka is known as the "mayor of 59th Street"

@highlight

Doorman gets a free stay at the hotel as part of his retirement gift(CNN) -- Donald Trump will let Miss California USA Carrie Prejean keep her title despite controversy over seminude photos and charges by state pageant officials that she had abandoned her duties to devote time to opposition to same-sex marriage.

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean caused controversy with remarks she made at the Miss USA pageant.

Trump, no apprentice at turning a negative into positive publicity, brought several weeks of controversy to a conclusion at his New York headquarters Tuesday with winners all around.

Trump said his Miss USA pageant stays "so relevant," unlike the rival Miss America pageant seen only on a small cable channel.

Prejean gained a national following that could help her post-pageant career.  Watch Prejean defend herself »

The Miss California USA organization has a beauty queen better known than the woman who won the Miss USA title -- Kristen Dalton of North Carolina.

Celebrity bloggers, such as Perez Hilton, whose question to Prejean ignited the firestorm, gained a higher profile and more readers for their Web sites.

And groups both for and against same-sex marriage gained energy for their fundraising and publicity campaigns.

Prejean stepped into the limelight unexpectedly just over three weeks ago when she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in response to a question asked during the national pageant by Hilton, a pageant judge.  Watch Hilton get dismissive »

Prejean finished as first runner-up, but it was not clear if her answer cost her the crown.

"He [Hilton] gave her very low marks," Trump said. "It certainly didn't help."

Hilton, who is openly gay and a strong supporter of same-sex marriage, later posted a video rant online in which he called Prejean "a dumb bitch."

This caught the national mainstream media's attention, and Hilton was invited to appear on TV shows to talk about it.

Prejean -- with pageant approval -- also talked publicly about her same-sex marriage opposition.

But when she appeared at a news conference for the National Organization for Marriage, a same-sex marriage opposition group, the controversy intensified.

Lawyers for the Miss USA group demanded that NOM stop using video clips of the pageant in its TV ads.

The controversy boiled to a new level last week when a photo of Prejean, wearing only pink panties but showing mainly a bare back, was published by gossip Web sites.

Miss California USA officials -- some of them outspoken advocates of same-sex marriage -- suggested that the seminude photo breached the contract Prejean signed with the pageant. Her title might be taken away, they said.  Watch Miss California USA offficials scold Prejean »

These officials also complained they couldn't reach Prejean and she had missed important pageant events. They charged that their beauty queen had been hijacked by anti-same-sex marriage forces.

But it was up to Trump, who bought the Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants a decade ago, to decide what to do about Carrie Prejean.

Trump united her with California pageant co-executive directors Shanna Moakler -- a former Playboy centerfold -- and Keith Lewis in his New York office Tuesday morning for a peacemaking session.

It ended with hugs and smiles at Trump's news conference.  Watch Trump's announcement »

Those photos of a topless Prejean do not violate the contract she signed when entering the pageant competition, Trump said.

"Some were very beautiful," he said. "Some were risque, but again, we're in the 21st century."

Trump praised Prejean for giving a "very, very honest answer" to a tough question during the pageant.

"It's the same answer that the president of the United States gave," he said.

And he said he would not hesitate to invite Hilton back as a pageant judge, despite the firestorm he set off.

"He's doing his thing," Trump said. "What's the big deal?"

"We want tough questions," he said. "We don't want to be in a position that Miss America is in that they're now on a small cable channel."

He noted that NBC recently extended the Miss USA and Miss Universe TV contracts for three years.

Prejean said she has forgiven Hilton and the other critical bloggers.

"I willingly forgive them before all of you today," she told reporters.

She said she was the victim of "hateful attacks, despicable rumors and false allegations" for exercising her freedom of speech, but the situation has given her a new message to carry as a role model to young people.

"Think about how much better our society would be if we could just agree to disagree and show respect," she said.

As she resumes public appearances as Miss California USA, Prejean said she will not be an activist against same-sex marriage.

"I'm going to resume my duties as Miss California, but also stay true to who I am and have my own personal opinions," she said. "We will see how we will balance the two."

@highlight

Carrie Prejean to keep title despite disputes over photos, duties

@highlight

Donald Trump, who owns the pageant,  made final decision

@highlight

Seminude photos don't violate contract Prejean signed, Trump says

@highlight

Prejean initially in news for her response to question about same-sex marriageFrugal, cold and boring -- those are just some of the words Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel has been called by her peers and the global press days before the German election.

So how did a quiet, unassuming fraulein from a small, rural town in the former communist-ruled German Democratic Republic (GDR) become arguably the most powerful female politician of all time?

While the constant chatter of fixing the Eurozone has recently abated, the Christian Democratic Union leader was a popular choice for another term with strong approval ratings thanks to securing the country's lowest unemployment rate in two decades.

Upon completion of her recently won third term as chancellor, by 2016 she will become the longest-serving elected female head of government in history. The original "Iron Lady" Margaret Thatcher, who served Britain for 11 years as prime minister, currently holds this record.

Merkel's rise from political obscurity to the highest publicly elected office in Germany is a captivating tale. Born in West Germany, her father Horst Kasner, a Lutheran pastor moved the family in 1957 to the small town of Templin in East Germany shortly before the erection of the Berlin Wall.

Humble beginnings

Growing up under communist rule in East Germany would have had a strong impact on the future chancellor. While she has often said she was never interested in the politics of the new state, her world view was shaped by her surroundings. The restrictions and ever-present secret police -- the Stasi -- taught Merkel the importance of discretion and when to speak up.

Through her childhood, Merkel was strong academically and teachers praised her skills in math and language, but it was the sciences that caught her attention. In turn, she went on to study physics at the University of Leipzig. The characteristics that come from being a scientist have become one of her defining skills as a politician.

As Stefan Kornelius writes in Merkel's authorized biography, "Angela Merkel -- The Chancellor and Her World": "Merkel shapes her world view in an analytical way. She weighs up arguments, industriously collects facts, considers the pros and cons ...

"She admires people with qualities that are not her own, but prefers to work her way steadily forward. Herein lies Merkel's problem: if her opponent doesn't use rational arguments, then the logical framework ceases to function, arguments cannot be weighted against each other and compromises cannot be reached."

Deja vu?

Upon leaving university and earning her PhD, Merkel initially worked as a quantum chemist at the Academy of Sciences in East Berlin before joining the a small independent party, Democatic Awakening shortly before reunification between East and West Germany.

She swiftly rose through the ranks of the party, which quickly aligned with then-chancellor of West Germany Helmut Kolhl.

By the time the Berlin Wall fell in October of 1990, Merkel was working as deputy press secretary to the East German premier. In the following months, she watched diplomacy in action and the rapid financial collapse of East Germany after reunification. Put simply, this experience shaped her economic world view forever.

"Look, I've experienced the collapse of a country, the GDR," she said in April at an event with the Polish Prime Minister, Donald Tusk. "The economic system failed under the aegis of the Soviet Union.

"What I really don't want is to look on, eyes open, as Europe as a whole slips back. I would find that absurd, we have all the skills in our hands."

Unafraid to say 'nein'

Viewed as the de facto leader of Europe, Merkel's legacy will largely be determined by the outcome of the euro crisis. Thrust into the center of Europe's ailing economic landscape, she has taken a hard line with neighboring countries and world leaders.

"In the debt crisis, Merkel is seen as the hard-bitten, humorless, austerity-enforcing "Madame Non" who refuses to underwrite the rest of the euro area's debt," writes journalists Alan Crawford and Tony Czuczka in their recent book, Angela Merkel: A Chancellorship Forged in Crisis.

Bringing her own brand of Germany's social market economy to the world stage with her divisive austerity measures, Merkel operates a step-by-step approach to her politics.

As Crawford and Czuczka write: "... Merkel consults widely to better formulate her approach to policy making. She is not given to snap, intuitive decisions, but is rather very deliberate in the way she reaches her conclusions."

But what also makes Merkel most unusual is how little her lifestyle has changed since assuming power. In contrast to fellow politicians, she lives a modest way of life residing in her Berlin apartment with her second husband Joachim Sauerspends.

What's more, she doesn't put on lavish displays when hosting world leaders and she continues to spend weekends away from public glare at her home in the rural hamlet of Hohenwalde, east of Berlin.

Though she is often described as "boring" and has been known to give long press conferences without revealing anything of news value, her understated political persona is her strength.

In an age where pomp and performance can seem to trump policy and substance, Merkel is the exception to the rule. Her shrewd negotiation skills and ability to deliver make up for what she lacks in charm and charisma. After all, sometimes the ability for a leader to govern is more important than the ability to warm a crowd.

@highlight

Merkel wins third term as German Chancellor after elections on Sunday

@highlight

Despite being described as frugal, cold and boring, Forbes named Merkel world's most powerful female in May

@highlight

Merkel's scientific background means she tackles problems in a calm, analytical mannerHollywood, California (CNN) -- Larry King, America's interviewer-in-chief, ended his record-setting career as CNN's prime-time, talk-show host Thursday night with a serenade from Tony Bennett, a greeting from President Obama and a "Larry King Day" proclamation from California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.

Those guests and others capped his 25-year run behind the microphone with CNN.

"Welcome to the last 'Larry King Live.' It's hard to say that," King said in his opening remarks to his last show.

He was joined on the set by comedian Bill Maher and television host Ryan Seacrest.

On several occasions, King stifled tears, especially when Maher put King in the same company as TV legends Johnny Carson, Steve Allen and Walter Cronkite.

"This is not Larry's funeral," Maher interjected early in the show. "Larry is hopefully going to be in our living rooms for years to come. This is the end of a show, not the end of a man."

King wore his signature suspenders -- a pair of red ones with a red-and-white polka-dot tie over a black shirt.

At end of his hourlong broadcast, King became choked up with his final sentences.

"It's not very often in my life that I've been without words," King said. He thanked his staff and producers.

"When I started 25 years ago in a little studio in Washington, D.C., I never thought it would last this long or come to this," King said. "I'm going to do specials on CNN and do radio work ... so you're not going to see me go away, but you're not going to see me on this set any more.

"I don't know what to say, except to you my audience, thank you. And instead of goodbye, how about so long?" King concluded.

His set then went black -- except for a spotlight illuminating his chrome microphone.

In his overall 53 years in broadcasting, King amassed 50,000 interviews, 6,120 shows in CNN's archives, 10 Cable ACE Awards, an Emmy, a Peabody and an entry in the Guinness World Records for having the longest-running show with the same host in the same time slot.

Among the guests on the last show was Schwarzenegger, who appeared by a satellite transmission from the capital of Sacramento. The governor extended congratulations and displayed the written proclamation declaring Thursday as belonging to King.

"Thank you," King said, adding this quip: "and keep this in mind: I'll be back."

King will be working on special projects for CNN.

In a pre-recorded videotaped message, President Obama called King "one of the giants in broadcasting."

"You say all that you do is ask questions, but for generations of Americans, the answers to those questions have surprised us and they have informed us," Obama said.

From a studio in New York, talk show host Regis Philbin tried to engage King in a song, but King was caught off guard.

"I lost the $500 question," King joked.

Joining Philbin in New York was Donald Trump.

"You shouldn't be leaving anything, Larry," Trump said. "Nobody ever did it better."

Also in New York was comic Fred Armisen, who dressed up exactly like King and then started interviewing him.

"Now Larry," Armisen said, "what has been my favorite interview?"

King: "You know you've done so many, it's hard to pick one out."

Armisen: "Larry, what is the most interesting thing about me."

King: "The most interesting about you is you're a little whacko."

Armisen: "What question have you asked more than any?"

King: "Why. You see the best question of all, Lar, is why. Because it can't be answered in one word and it forces the person to think."

Armisen: "Besides holding up my pants, why do I wear suspenders?"

King: "I will not stop wearing them. No matter what I do in life, the suspenders will remain."

News anchors Katie Couric, Diane Sawyer, and Brian Williams joined talk show host Barbara Walters in extending farewells. They were also telecasted from a set in New York.

"We are your protégés, your groupies," Sawyer said, giving King a pair of suspenders embroidered with the four guests' and King's names.

"All of us have done heads of state" interviews, Walters said. "No one has done more than you."

After King moved the conversation to Williams, Williams remarked: "You've just done what scores of network executives have been unable to do. You just snatched airtime from Barbara Walters."

Couric read from a poem she wrote for King, in which one verse went:

"You made NAFTA exciting and that's hard to do.

"And you scored the Paris Hilton post-jail interview," Couric recited.

Former president Bill Clinton, who just returned from a visit to Haiti and was in Little Rock, Arkansas, said he admired King's work ethic. Clinton had appeared 28 times on King's show.

"I'm like you," Clinton said in a live feed from Arkansas. "I have to keep working. I don't know if it keeps me young, but it keeps me out of the grave."

Seacrest read from a letter written to King from the Rev. Billy Graham, who wrote: "You will be greatly missed in my evening routine."

Talk show host Dr. Phil McGraw joined the Hollywood set toward the end of the show and asked King how he felt.

King turned the question on McGraw: "How am I doing?"

"With grace," McGraw said.

"You never like to be the center of attention," McGraw later said. "You ask short questions." Turning to Seacrest and Maher, he added: "He told me years ago, if it's more than 2 sentences, it's too long."

King was then joined by his wife, Shawn, and two sons, Chance, 11, and Cannon, 10, to hear Tony Bennett sing "Best is Yet to Come" from Lake Charles, Louisiana.

"How about them apples," King said afterwards.

"Thanks for all the great interviews you've given us, Larry," Bennett said.

Chance said he looked forward to seeing more of his father.

Cannon then stole the show momentarily with an uncanny impersonation of his father, as if he were talking to him and then his mother:

"Get in the car. I'm too old for this. I've done this for 50 years," Cannon said, with an entertaining imitation of King's gravelly voice. "Stop doing your makeup. This is the last show. We're going to be late."

When King ended his last show and the airtime moved on to Anderson Cooper for his show, the anchor summarized: "a remarkable moment and a remarkable man."

@highlight

Larry King amassed 6,120 shows in CNN's archives over 25 years

@highlight

He fought back tears several times and ended his show with "instead of a goodbye, how about so long"

@highlight

King will next work on special projects for CNN(CNN) -- Voluble real estate mogul Donald Trump called alleged Wall Street scam artist Bernard Madoff a "sleazebag" and "a total crook" Thursday in an interview on CNN.

Donald Trump said investors who lost money in a Ponzi scheme were victims of their own greed.

Trump recently hosted a party at his Palm Beach, Florida, estate, Mar-a-Lago, that was attended by several people who say they were victims of an alleged $50 billion Ponzi scheme run by Madoff.

Madoff, 70, is a former chairman of Nasdaq. He was charged last week with fraud.

Trump, chairman and president of the Trump Organization, a New York-based real estate development empire, spoke with Kiran Chetry on CNN's "American Morning."

CNN: How angry are people at this situation with Madoff?

Donald Trump: ... The people in Palm Beach, many of those people have been just ripped off by this sleazebag, and they'll never see the kind of money that they've seen.  You have some people gave 100 percent of their net worth to him in trust, because they trusted him, they trusted his family, they trusted everybody, and now they literally are selling their houses in order to live. And some of them mortgaged their houses in order to give that money to this Madoff. And it's really a terrible thing. I'd see him around Mar-a-Lago, I'd see him around Palm Beach -- and he's a disgrace.  Watch the possible ramifications of the Madoff case »

CNN: ... How did he get away with this? How did so many smart people entrust somebody -- and we keep hearing over and over again, 100 percent of their money going to this guy. Would you ever let 100 percent of your money go to something, even if you trusted the person?

Trump: I would not, and a lot of my friends would not, but obviously a lot of my friends did. The word is very simple. It's a word called "greed." Greed. That's all it is. People were greedy. They thought he was going to get them a little bit more return, or a lot more return.

I mean, he was a Svengali for rich people. There are Svengalis for women; this guy was a Svengali for rich people -- very rich people. But when you think of a person putting up 100 percent of their net worth and even mortgaging their house, even though they had a lot of cash -- mortgaging their house to get more cash to this guy -- and now they're going to have to go out, literally, and maybe work in a drugstore. I don't know what they're going to do.

CNN: Did you lose money from Madoff?

Trump: No, I did not.

CNN: Some are blaming the [Securities and Exchange Commission], saying for years they did not investigate any claims. Chairman Christopher Cox said there were some credible accusations against Madoff made nearly a decade ago that were never referred to the commission to act. So what's your take on the oversight, how the SEC and government handled this?

Trump: I would not blame the SEC. This guy was a total crook. The people in his own organization supposedly didn't know about it. Now, that's another thing; I find that hard to believe. He's got two sons, and they didn't know about it? And they worked there for years? I think the whole thing is a swindle. I think even that's a swindle: The father said, "Look, you guys turn me in and pretend you don't know anything and I'll save my two sons." But it's impossible for me to believe that his sons didn't know about this.

CNN: So you also think it's impossible that he acted alone.

Trump: I don't know how you could act alone. They had three floors of a major office building. How could one man be manipulating that much money without all of the people knowing -- without at least a large number of the people knowing about it? So I would certainly think that his sons are guilty.

@highlight

Real estate giant lashes out at suspect in $50 billion investment scheme

@highlight

People were victims of their own greed, Trump says

@highlight

Trump doubts that Bernard Madoff could have acted alone

@highlight

Trump says he did not lose any money to MadoffCHICAGO, Illinois (CNN)  -- One of Chicago's most well-known real estate moguls appears to have shot himself to death, police said.

Steven Good was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot Monday, police said.

The body of Steven L. Good was found in his Jaguar on Monday. The car was spotted in a parking lot of a wildlife preserve in Kane County, Illinois, just outside Chicago, authorities said.

No note was found, and police say they do not know how long the 52-year-old had been in the vehicle.

Good was the chairman and chief executive officer of Sheldon Good & Co., a major U.S. real estate auction company.

The death comes amid great turmoil in the country's real estate industry. In his role as chairman of the Realtors Commercial Alliance Committee, Good commented on tough conditions last month at a business conference.

On a memorial blog set up by the Chicago Association of Realtors, for which Good once served as president, friends and colleagues described him as a gregarious man with a big personality. He was a savvy businessman who built his company into a major national real estate company that did deals with Donald Trump, they said.

"It is testimony to Steve's leadership that Sheldon Good & Co. remains well-positioned for the future," said Sheldon Good President Alan R. Kravets.

"The guy was a true blue Realtor," said Barbara Matthopoulos, the association's spokeswoman.

She was new to real estate when she met Good more than a year ago. He took time to give her advice that has helped her grow to love the business.

"Anybody who knew him would speak to his leadership, his generosity, his attitude. The guy was just very positive, always smiling, always telling you a story. He was engaged. Everyone is really very shocked," she said. "I doubt anyone could help explain why this happened."

Kane County Sheriff's Department spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said authorities don't have any "concrete evidence if this had anything to do with his finances."

The company was founded by Good's father, Sheldon Good, in 1965, according to the firm's Web site.

Steven Good had "been involved in the sale of more than $4 billion of real estate, including commercial, office, retail, industrial, residential, and vacant land sites," it says.

"Mr. Good is the driving force behind the expansion of the company, which has been ranked as the largest firm in the United States exclusively conducting real estate auctions."

Good, who was also an attorney, wrote a book, "Churches, Jails and Gold Mines: Mega-Deals From a Real Estate Maverick." According to Amazon.com, Donald Trump wrote the afterword.

The first chapter begins, "Our auction company is to the real estate business what Sotheby's and Christie's is the fine art and collectibles business." The book goes to say that as of its 2003 publication, the firm had sold 40,000 properties totaling $8 billion.

"If you lined up 1,000 people and said pick the one that might do this to themselves, he would be the last person I would choose," said Wayne Caplan, who worked at Sheldon Good for six years and knew Steven Good personally. "He had a zest for life. He has a wife and kids and he had so much in his life."

@highlight

Steven L. Good was found dead of an apparent gunshot wound in his car Monday

@highlight

Good was a well-known real estate businessman in Chicago

@highlight

Friends, family shocked, saddened by what police say appears to be a suicideLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- The legal battle between Miss California USA pageant officials and former beauty queen Carrie Prejean ended Tuesday with an agreement to drop their claims, according to a pageant spokesman.

The pageant has dropped its lawsuit filed last month demanding Prejean repay $5,200 given her for breast implants, publicist Kenn Henman said.

Prejean, in exchange, withdrew her suit accusing the pageant of violating her privacy by confirming to reporters that her breasts were fake, he said.

Details of the agreement were not immediately available, he said Tuesday afternoon.

"We are moving forward from the past and looking towards the crowning of two winners and the new look of the upcoming Miss California USA pageant," pageant Executive Director Keith Lewis said in a written statement.

The public fight began last April when Prejean, 22, stepped into controversy by declaring her opposition to same-sex marriage while answering a judge's question at the Miss USA pageant. Prejean finished as first runner-up.

While state and national pageant officials publicly supported her initially, their opinions eventually changed after she continued to make public statements about same-sex marriage.

She held onto her crown through May -- despite a series of questionable photos that emerged on gossip Web sites.

She was dethroned in June by Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump amid growing complaints by state officials that she was uncooperative and not meeting her contractual obligations.

Prejean filed a lawsuit in Los Angeles County Superior Court in August, claiming that her firing was religious discrimination because of her stand against same-sex marriage.

The pageant's countercomplaint said Prejean's belligerent behavior, lack of cooperation and contract breaches caused her firing, not her opposition to same-sex marriage.

Prejean also claimed pageant officials violated her privacy by acknowledging to reporters that her breasts were fake.

The truth about Prejean's breasts "ceased being private during the swimsuit competition of the nationally televised Miss USA pageant, in which Ms. Prejean walked the stage in a bikini," pageant lawyers said in their countersuit filed in October.

State pageant officials say they loaned the money for the breast surgery under an oral agreement with Prejean and she never repaid them.

The group also asked a judge to give them any profits from Prejean's tell-all book due out this month, which they claim was written in violation of her pageant contract.

One thing they all agreed on was that Prejean needed bigger breasts if she was to be competitive in the national pageant in April, the pageant's filing said.

"Ms. Prejean disclosed that she had been thinking about and wanting to have breast augmentation surgery for some time, but did not have the money to pay for it," the filing said. "She felt that if she had the surgery, in her opinion, she would be more competitive for the Miss USA pageant."

After pageant officials agreed to loan her the money, Prejean underwent breast augmentation in January, the pageant filing said.

The court documents gave an inside look at the hostile relationship between Prejean, California pageant officials and Trump.

After the Miss USA pageant, "With her new-found notoriety, an inflated sense of self, and the lure of financial gain available to her, Ms. Prejean turned even further against the Miss California USA organization, abandoned her obligations as the Miss California USA titleholder, and violated multiple provisions of the contract which governed her reign," the pageant filing said.

@highlight

Pageant dropped lawsuit demanding Carrie Prejean repay $5,200 for her breast implants

@highlight

Prejean, in exchange, withdrew suit accusing pageant of violating her privacy

@highlight

Suit had said Pageant confirmed to reporters that Prejean's breasts were fake(CNN) -- Real estate mogul and television celebrity Donald Trump, who generated a media publicity blitz by saying he might run for president in 2012, announced Monday that he will instead remain a businessman.

"After considerable deliberation and reflection, I have decided not to pursue the office of the presidency," Trump said in a statement.

With his typical bravado, Trump maintained that he would have won the Republican primary and the general election, but recognized that "running for public office cannot be done half-heartedly."

RNC chairman: "It's his choice" | Was he ever serious?

"Ultimately, however, business is my greatest passion and I am not ready to leave the private sector," Trump said in the statement.

Trump's flirtation with running for the Republican nomination included his demand that President Barack Obama make public his full birth certificate from Hawaii.

Mike Huckabee takes himself out of contention

Obama previously had provided a shorter version that serves as the public record in Hawaii, but amid the media glare on the issue raised in part by Trump's repeated questioning of whether the so-called long version of the document existed, the president released it last month.

@highlight

The business mogul says he wants to remain in the private sector

@highlight

Trump: "Business is my greatest passion and I am not ready to leave the private sector"(CNN) -- Mitt Romney returned to his native Michigan on Friday where he created a stir with a comment about birth certificates, reopening a thorny issue pushed by some Republicans who question whether President Barack Obama is a U.S.-born citizen, a requisite for the White House.

Separately, embattled Republican Congressman Todd Akin formally announced that he would remain in the Missouri senate race despite widespread calls from his party to step down after his controversial remarks about rape and pregnancy.

And a new national poll showed Romney and Obama remain deadlocked just days before the opening of the Republican National Convention in Tampa.

Appearing in Commerce Township, Michigan, with his running mate, Rep. Paul Ryan, Romney sought to preview the personal narrative that will be a major focus of next week's nominating convention. He began his stump speech reminding voters of his roots in the Detroit suburbs.

"I love being home in this place where Ann and I were raised, where both of us were born," Romney said. "Ann was born at Henry Ford hospital, I was born at Harper hospital. No one has ever asked to see my birth certificate. They know that this is the place that we were born and raised," he said.

Although Romney was talking about his own birth certificate, the comment amounted to an indirect zing at Obama and the so-called "birther" controversy that has followed him since the last presidential campaign.

The thousands who turned out to see Romney roared at the punch line.

The White House released Obama's full birth certificate in 2011, showing he was born in a Hawaii hospital on August 4, 1961. Only "natural born" citizens of the United States are eligible to be president

In a statement responding to Romney's comments, Obama campaign spokesman Ben LaBolt mentioned real estate magnate Donald Trump and others who have pursued the issue.

"Throughout this campaign, Governor Romney has embraced the most strident voices in his party instead of standing up to them," LaBolt said, adding that Romney's "decision to directly enlist himself in the 'birther' movement should give pause to any rational voter across America."

The Obama campaign used the comment in a campaign appeal to supporters, encouraging them to think about "what he's actually saying, and what it says about Mitt Romney. Then make a donation of $5 or more to re-elect Barack Obama today."

A Romney aide said after Romney's remarks that the former Massachusetts governor has "repeatedly said" that he believes Obama was born in the United States.

"He was only referencing that Michigan, where he is campaigning today, is the state where he himself was born and raised," the aide said.

The comment resonated with some supporters gathered for the campaign event.

"There's been a lot of talk about it one way or another," said Mitzi Pawloski of West Bloomfield, Michigan. "The truth is Obama probably hasn't released all the documents he could."

Others applauded Romney.

"I thought it was great because why should we have to worry about whether the president has a birth certificate or not," said Guy Myers of Clarkston, Michigan.

Michigan is a battleground in November. Obama won the state four years ago and authorized the massive taxpayer-sponsored rescue of failing Detroit automakers and suppliers in 2009. Romney's father was a former auto industry executive and governor of the state. He also sought the Republican presidential nomination in 1968.

New presidential poll shows virtual tie, Akin remains in race

Separately, a CNN/ORC International poll showed Romney and Obama in a dead heat as the campaign approached its fall stretch drive, placing heavier importance on the Republican gathering that starts Monday and the Democratic convention the week after in Charlotte.

According to the survey, 49% of likely voters said they were backing Obama and 47% supported Romney. The margin is within the survey's sampling error, meaning the race is a statistical tie. Further, 48% of likely voters who are independents said they supported Romney, with 45% backing Obama.

In the race for Senate in Missouri, Akin told a news conference that he would not abandon his campaign despite widespread calls from fellow Republicans to do so since unleashing a political firestorm in a St. Louis television interviewed aired on Sunday.

A six-term member of Congress with deep ties to Christian conservatives, Akin initially apologized and said he would not drop out. He made it official on Friday.

"We are going to be here through the November election, and we are going to be here to win," he said.

"I may not be the favorite candidate of some people within the Republican establishment, but the voters made a decision and this is an election, it's not a selection," Akin said.

Republicans have been counting on Akin, who won a three-way primary fight, to defeat incumbent Democrat Claire McCaskill in the campaign considered crucial for any GOP hopes of capturing control of the Senate.

Romney came out more forcefully in an interview, calling the remarks "deeply offensive."

"I can't defend what he said; I can't defend him," Romney said.

More waves before convention, Santorum delegates

With convention planning in the home stretch, Romney's campaign is considering a dramatic scheduling change to guarantee Ann Romney a much larger national audience - but the shift could also cause tensions with a rising GOP star and Latinos, CNN has learned.

If Ann Romney is moved from Monday to Thursday night, she would introduce her husband and bump Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida from that role.

GOP sources confirm such a move is under consideration but stress that no final decision has been made.

A Romney campaign spokeswoman declined to discuss any hypothetical scheduling moves.

Ann Romney is considered by many to be one of her husband's strongest surrogates by helping to soften up his image as a calculated businessman.

Convention organizers and attendees also watched to see if a storm churning through the Atlantic with ferocious winds and heavy rains would head for western Florida just as 50,000 people open the convention.

Planners were confident that Tropical Storm Isaac would not disrupt the four-day event and that Romney would be nominated as scheduled.

Romney got some good news on Friday ahead of the convention. Rick Santorum, who at one point was Romney's top challenger for the nomination, officially released his delegates and encouraged them to back the presumptive nominee.

Halimah Abdullah, Kevin Bohn, Peter Hamby, John King, Kevin Liptak, and Mark Preston contributed.

@highlight

Mitt Romney joked about his birth certificate in return to his native Michigan

@highlight

Embattled candidate Todd Akin said he would remain in the Missouri Senate race

@highlight

New poll showed President Obama and Mitt Romney in an overall statistical tie

@highlight

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio could be bumped from prime speaking role at RNC convention(CNN) -- Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer vetoed a bill late Monday that would have required President Barack Obama and other presidential candidates to prove they were American citizens, born in the United States, before their names could have been placed on the state ballot.

The so-called "birther bill" got final approval in the state House last week. Now that Brewer, a Republican, has vetoed it, the bill will not become law unless legislators vote to override her veto.

"As a former Secretary of State, I do not support designating one person as a gatekeeper to the ballot for a candidate, which could lead to arbitrary or politically-motivated decisions," the governor wrote in a letter addressed to the Arizona House speaker.

Under the measure, if there were any dispute about whether a candidate had proved he or she had been born in the United States, Arizona's secretary of state would have the final say.

"This measure creates significant new problems while failing to do anything constructive for Arizona," she added.

Obama has been hounded by allegations since he began running for president in 2008 that he was not born in America. Critics contend, among other things, that he was born in his father's home country of Kenya. The U.S. Constitution stipulates that only "natural born" citizens are eligible to be president.

Obama has insisted that he was born in Hawaii, and the allegations against him have been repeatedly discredited in investigations by CNN and other organizations. Nevertheless, the issue remains politically potent among segments of the electorate and has served as a rallying cry for many of the president's opponents, most recently potential GOP presidential candidate Donald Trump.

William Bennett's take on Donald Trump

The author of the so-called "birther bill," Arizona State Rep. Carl Seel, has said the bill was not targeted at Obama, but at "maintaining the integrity of the Constitution."

Among other things, a candidate would have to show a copy of his or her birth certificate. If a birth certificate couldn't be produced, a candidate would have to show a combination of baptismal or circumcision records, hospital birth files, postpartum medical records or other documents. Candidates also would have to submit affidavits declaring their citizenship as well as sworn statements regarding their residency for the previous 14 years.

"I never imagined being presented with a bill that could require candidates for President of the greatest and most powerful nation on earth to submit their 'early baptismal or circumcision certificates' among other records to the Arizona Secretary of State. This is a bridge too far," wrote Brewer.

Fourteen other states are considering similar legislation this year, according to Jennie Bowser, a senior fellow with the National Conference of State Legislatures. Measures have failed in three states -- Connecticut, Maine and Montana.

Obama's sister criticizes 'birthers'

In an effort to counter the charges of the birthers, Obama's 2008 campaign produced a "certification of live birth," a document traditionally accepted legally as confirmation of a birth.

Both the current Hawaii governor, Neil Abercrombie, a Democrat, and the previous governor, Linda Lingle, a Republican, have insisted that Obama was born in their home state.

Nearly 75% of Americans believe Obama was definitely or probably born in the United States, according to a March 11-13 CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll. More than four in 10 Republicans, however, believe the president probably or definitely was not born in America.

@highlight

Gov. Jan Brewer says the bill is "a bridge too far"

@highlight

It would have required presidential hopefuls to prove they were born in the U.S.

@highlight

President Barack Obama has fought allegations that he wasn't born in America(CNN) -- During the White House Correspondents' Dinner on Saturday night, Jimmy Kimmel made a joke that President Obama laughed at, but that you could see was just killing him inside.

"Mr. President, do you remember when the country rallied around you in hopes of a better tomorrow?" Kimmel asked. "That was hilarious. That was your best one yet."

Yeah it was.

I'm sure he still has a lot of hope. But I would dare to say the thing that changed most over these past three years is Obama. The unbridled optimism that his first campaign once embodied has been bludgeoned by dogmatism, pragmatism and bipartisan cronyism.

Hope and change are tough when the worst economy in 80 years is waiting to greet you at the door.

Hope and change are challenging when Rush Limbaugh, the unofficial gatekeeper of the conservative movement, tells his troops "I hope Obama fails" before your first day on the job.

Hope and change are virtually impossible when working with a Congress so dysfunctional that its approval rating never reached 25% in all of 2011 and was as low as 10% in February.

No wonder his hair is a bit grayer these days.

And no wonder the new Obama slogan is "Forward."

"Hope and Change" captured the heart of a people who believed one man could change the culture of Washington. "Forward" acknowledges things are not where he said they would be, but takes ownership of a record that shows he at least has us pointed in the right direction: 12 consecutive months of job losses before he took office, 25 consecutive months and counting of job growth since 2010.

It's not as sexy, but at least it's honest.

After all, Guantanamo Bay is still open.

Unemployment is still above 8%.

Housing prices are still low.

This is why probably why Mitt Romney felt comfortable enough to send out this tweet: "The promises that candidate Obama made are very different than what President Obama delivered."

Embedded in the tweet was a video, showing Obama in 2008 promising to go through the federal budget line by line to cut fat, and then fast forwarding to today with stats about the growing debt and the nearly $1 million wasted on the now infamous GSA conference.

Had another challenger posted the ad, it would have landed a solid right hook to Obama's re-election bid.

But it was Romney, so it was more like a boomerang -- an aggressive attack sent out but ultimately coming back to its sender. The last person who should want to start a video rewind contest is Romney, who has enough flip-flops and broken promises captured on film that he could start his own network.

Nonetheless, while the messenger is a bit shaky, the overall message is not. Obama has indeed fallen short on quite a few of the promises he's made over the years.

And the campaign slogan "Forward" reflects those shortcomings and challenges: obstructionist Republicans determined to bring him down, self-serving Democrats too scared to pass a budget, and a public so dense that at one point it thought Donald Trump would make a good president.

But at the end of the day, Obama has only himself to blame for the malaise of disappointment that has draped much of his presidency. A disappointment, mind you, that has less to do with his actual policy than with his inability to reach the ridiculously high bar he set for himself over the years.

Tweets like Romney's are not necessarily fair -- after all, nothing happens in a vacuum -- but Obama was the one who made all of the promises. He was the one who set the standard. He is the one sitting in his own prison. I doubt he'll ever say it, but I bet if he had a chance to do it all over again, he would underbid rather than overbid his hand.

Romney will continue to hammer away at what Obama hasn't done -- and he should -- if for no other reason than hoping to distract voters from seeing all of the things Obama has accomplished.

Like preventing insurance companies from denying people with pre-existing conditions, courtesy of the flawed but helpful Affordable Care Act; overturning "don't ask, don't tell;" appointing two women to the Supreme Court. Getting Osama bin Laden.

That was one of candidate Obama's promises, you know.

In 2007 he said he would get bin Laden, even if it meant going into Pakistan. This week marks the one-year anniversary of President Obama delivering on that promise. Funny, for some reason that clip didn't make it into Romney's ad.

I'm sure it was an oversight.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of LZ Granderson.

@highlight

In 2008, "Hope and Change" was Obama slogan; this year it's "Forward"

@highlight

LZ Granderson says President Obama's ambitions have been scaled back

@highlight

He says economy, D.C. dysfunction, GOP opposition have gotten in the way

@highlight

Granderson says Romney's flip-flops make it hard for him to hold Obama accountable(CNN) -- A reporter from a right-wing media outlet heckled President Obama -- not once, but twice -- on Friday as he was unveiling a new immigration policy. If this shocks you, you haven't been paying attention. This is simply the latest page from the right's playbook to delegitimize Barack Obama's presidency.

Some may dismiss it as an isolated incident, but it's not. It goes much deeper. Believe me, I know hecklers -- I'm a stand-up comedian. If someone heckles me once, it can be a mistake: too many drinks, overcome by emotion, etc. But when you heckle twice, you have an agenda.

Neil Munro, the Irish born reporter who heckled President Obama, was not just from some random publication. He works for The Daily Caller, a right-wing website whose editor-in-chief is the bow-tie wearing Tucker Carlson. (You may recall Carlson as the guy who famously sparred with â€” and was taken down by -- Jon Stewart on CNN years ago.)

Munro's first heckle occurred while President Obama was in midsentence, with Munro yelling out: "Why do you favor foreigners over Americans?" Obama responded: "Excuse me, sir, but it's not time for questions." Munro countered: "Are you going to take questions?"

To which the president answered: "Not while I'm speaking."

Later, Munro again interrupted the president in midstatement. Obama kept his cool; he simply finished his statement. If I had been president, I would have deported Munro back to his country of origin.

A quick perusal of Munro's Twitter feed reveals he does not hide his contempt for President Obama. His tweets range from claims that Obama is using NASCAR and country music to attract "white non-college voters," to slams of Michelle Obama, to allegations that Obama is racially discriminating against blacks in his White House hiring practices.

But this is all not about Munro -- he is just a small cog in the right's campaign to diminish the legitimacy of Obama's presidency. I'm not talking about people disagreeing with policies. I mean specifically the campaign to paint Barack Obama as less than American -- as an "other"--as someone whose presidency is not entitled to the same respect as that of the presidents who came before him.

This crusade began in the days before Barack Obama was even sworn in as president. Back then, Rush Limbaugh, the radio host and self-described "entertainer," announced on his show that he hoped Obama would fail as president. Obama had not even made his first decision as president.

The campaign has continued with the right's birther movement contending that Obama was not born in the United States and hence should not be president. Some, like evangelical leader Franklin Graham, have suggested that Obama is a Muslim (he is a Christian), which to many on the right would mean he's not a "real" American.

We have seen Republican Rep. Joe Wilson yell out at President Obama, "You lie" while Obama addressed a joint session of Congress in 2009. Can anyone remember the last time a U.S. president was called a liar in a joint session of Congress? I can't.

Then there was Republican Rep. Joe Walsh, who last July called on President Obama to "quit lying" in regards to the debt ceiling debate. Can anyone remember something like this with previous presidents? I can't either. And, of course, there's Donald Trump, not only periodically renewing the "birther" fabrication, but also demanding to see President Obama's college grades, implying he doesn't think Obama is intellectually qualified to be president.

So you see, Munro is just doing his tiny part. And no doubt some on the right will exalt him for his "courage." His boss, Tucker Carlson, defended him by saying that no one was upset when then-ABC reporter Sam Donaldson heckled President Reagan. But Fox News' Chris Wallace recalled today that when he was a White House correspondent with Donaldson during the Reagan administration, no one ever heckled the president.

So, yet another lie. But the truth doesn't matter to the far right. It's not about policy or what is good for the United States of America. It's about delegitimizing President Obama for political gain.

In the coming months, as we get closer to Election Day, you may see many more of these kinds of attacks. While they may disgust you, they should never surprise you. It's all in the playbook.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: A reporter from right-wing site heckled Obama as he talked about immigration

@highlight

He says heckling from Irish-born reporter part of right's campaign to delegitimize Obama

@highlight

He says incidents include Wilson's "you lie," Trump seeking Obama's grades

@highlight

Obeidallah: Expect to see more disrespecting of the president as "the other" during campaign(CNN) -- It was strange -- and strangely creepy -- to discover that the former California cop accused of murder has so many opinions about cable pundits and anchors.

The 11-page manifesto from Christopher Dorner is filled with dark and disturbing thoughts, and his comments about television provide a macabre form of comic relief. What was equally troubling, at least to me, was an explosion of conservative comments on Twitter trying to tie his alleged rampage to ... liberals.

That's right, even with three people dead, one wounded and a manhunt under way, the ugly game of ideological finger-pointing was under way.

"This is very telling that you've got a direct association of liberal luminaries with this killer," Brent Bozell, president of the conservative Media Research Center, told Fox's Sean Hannity.

Actually, it's not telling at all. At least Bozell added that the luminaries should not be held responsible for Dorner's actions just because his screed invoked their names.

Watch: Should we care that Dorner likes liberal pundits?

Dorner seems all over the map. He wants Hillary Clinton to be president, but calls Chris Christie his second choice and praises George H.W. Bush and Colin Powell.

Some of the television figures he hailed clearly lean left, others are hard-news anchors and reporters. One -- "Morning Joe" host Joe Scarborough -- is a former Republican congressman.

"Chris Matthews, Joe Scarborough, Pat Harvey, Brian Williams, Soledad O'Brien, Wolf Blitzer, Meredith Viera, Tavis Smiley and Anderson Cooper, keep up the great work and follow Cronkite's lead," the manifesto says. And it offers advice: "Willie Geist, you're a talented and charismatic journalist. Stop with all the talk show shenanigans and get back to your core of reporting."

Watch: Did Chris Christie bully the doctor who dissed him on TV?

At CNN, Dorner loves Piers Morgan but wants Fareed Zakaria deported. He mailed Cooper a DVD related to his termination from the Los Angeles police force and a coin with three bullet holes. The idea that we should take the detritus of this diseased mind seriously is ludicrous.

After I tweeted a link to a colleague's Daily Download story about the manifesto, I asked whether we should care what Dorner writes. Some on the right went haywire.

"Would you care if he loved Fox News, Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh?" one Twitter user asked. "My guess is you would, hypocrite."

And: "Entire MSM would feed on this if it were linked to any right-wing cause."

Oh, and someone said I was "a sick, twisted freak and a liar" for saying that Scarborough, the former Republican congressman turned MSNBC host, is a conservative.

Watch: Should CBS have banned revealing outfits at the Grammys?

Some blatantly promoted the notion of payback: "You guys smeared Palin over Tucson. Now it's your turn to be linked to a murderous madman. Only this time the link's legit."

In other words, if Dorner admired some liberal media figures, they're somehow to blame for inspiring the murders.

Now it's true that some on the left tried to tar Palin when Jared Loughner opened fire in a Phoenix shopping center, killing six people and wounding Gabby Giffords. Palin's team had posted a map with crosshair targets representing Democratic lawmakers, including Giffords, that she was singling out for defeat in the 2010 midterms.

On the day of the shooting, I wrote on The Daily Beast: "This isn't about a nearly year-old Sarah Palin map; it's about a lone nutjob who doesn't value human life." The use of the crosshairs imagery was dumb, I said, but there was no place for a "sickening ritual of guilt by association."

And the same goes for the case o fChristopher Dorner. The man is accused of killing a police officer and a couple in a parking lot. What possible difference does it make which journalists and politicians he likes or loathes?

The Giffords shooting sparked an important discussion about the need to tone down incendiary rhetoric, but that's a far cry from accusing people of complicity in crime.

Watch: Does Donald Trump have a $5 million case against Bill Maher?

There is also the question of whether the manifesto should have been published.

In 1995, I covered the controversy when The New York Times and The Washington Post, where I then worked, published another manifesto, this one a 35,000-word ramble by the mass murderer known as the Unabomber. His real name was Ted Kaczynski, and he threatened to keep on killing unless the papers acquiesced. The publication prompted Kaczynski's brother to tell the FBI of his suspicions.

In the wired age, there was no question that Dorner's words would instantly ricochet around the world. No newspaper publisher can act as a gatekeeper; the Web serves as a platform even for the poisonous words of alleged killers.

But that doesn't mean we should take those words and use them to rope in public figures who have the misfortune of being named. Killers are responsible for killing, no matter which television anchors they happen to like.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Howard Kurtz.

@highlight

An 11-page manifesto from accused gunman comments on TV personalities

@highlight

Howard Kurtz says it's foolish to pay attention to media preferences of the suspect

@highlight

He says some see the situation as payback for criticism of Palin after Giffords shooting

@highlight

Kurtz: What difference does it make which politicians, pundits the suspect admires?New York (CNN) -- A Brooklyn man who registered domain names related to real estate mogul Donald Trump must pay $32,000 damages, a judge ruled Friday.

J. Taikwok Yung, a self-described "domainer" developed four websites -- trumpmumbai.com, trumpindia.com, trumpbeijing.com, and trumpbudhabi.com -- parodying the well-known businessman and providing commentary, often disparaging, on Trump and his television shows "The Apprentice" and "The Celebrity Apprentice."

Attorneys representing Trump filed a countersuit against Yung, 34, at the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn in March 2013, seeking damages for "federal cybersquatting."

That's defined by the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act as "the registration as domain names of well-known trademarks by non-trademark holders who then try to sell the names back to the trademark owners."

Trump was seeking the maximum damages allowable -- $100,000 for each of the four Trump-related domain names.

Attorney James Weinberger told CNN the ruling "should serve as a deterrent to Mr. Yung or anyone else who thinks they can register names that include Trump's trademark and name and use them for commercial purposes."

Trump is a trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Organization and the name is associated with high-profile business ventures.

The four websites were developed in 2007, the same year the Trump organization announced plans to build Trump-branded hotels and condominiums in Mumbai and Bangalore, India.

The Trump Organization demanded that Yung hand over the websites. In 2011, Yung filed a complaint seeking to keep the domain names, citing fair use and First Amendment rights.

In 2010, Yung rejected $100 per domain that Trump's lawyers offered him.

Efforts to contact Yung for comment were unsuccessful.

@highlight

A Brooklyn man must pay Donald Trump $32,000 damages, a judge ruled Friday

@highlight

J. Taikwok Yung parodied and critiqued Trump and his TV shows on four websites

@highlight

Websites, launched in 2007, had domain names suggestive of new Trump ventures

@highlight

Trump filed suit in 2013 seeking damages for "federal cybersquatting"Los Angeles (CNN) -- It was a public relations battle featuring two well-known masters of the media, a beauty queen, and a controversial question: Should someone born a man be allowed to compete in the Miss Universe pageant?

On the East Coast was Donald Trump, the New York business tycoon whose fortune and brand is boosted by his ability to navigate storms of controversy.

On the West Coast was Gloria Allred, a Beverly Hills lawyer legendary for her ability to draw hordes of cameras to her law office to capture her outrage over alleged injustices done to her clients.

The client is Jenna Talackova, a 23-year-old, 6-foot-1-inch blond Canadian, who underwent sexual reassignment surgery four years ago.

Talackova won a regional beauty crown qualifying her for Canada's national title, but she was then told the Miss Canada Universe pageant in Toronto on May 19 was only open to "naturally born females."

"I am a woman," Talackova said in a prepared statement she read to reporters in Allred's conference room Tuesday. "I was devastated and I felt that excluding me for the reason that they gave was unjust."

Allred attacked Trump, who owns and controls the Miss Universe franchise, for questioning Talackova's sexuality.

"She did not ask Mr. Trump to prove that he is a naturally born man or to see photos of his birth to view his anatomy to prove that he was male," Allred said.

How she became a female is not important, she said.

"The Miss Universe competition is designed to find the one person in the world whose human qualities make them worthy of the Miss Universe crown and title," Allred said. "Jenna is beautiful in every way. Her life story will undoubtedly inspire people throughout the world."

Talackova, in a 2010 interview, said she knew she was a girl at age 4. She said she started hormone therapy at age 14 and underwent sexual reassignment surgery at 19.

Trump, warned of Allred's attack when the lawyer alerted reporters Monday afternoon that she would hold the news conference, shifted his pageant's position in an announcement Monday night.

Talackova could compete provided "she meets the legal gender recognition requirements of Canada, and the standards established by other international competitions," the Miss Universe Organization said.

Trump's maneuver didn't appear to temper Allred's outrage.

"The last-minute statement by Mr. Trump's representative put out late yesterday only confuses the issue," she said. "Instead of stating clearly that Jenna will be allowed to compete, Mr. Trump qualifies it by adding conditions that are ambiguous."

She asked Trump for "a clear answer -- not a wimpy, wishy-washy type of answer -- but something that we can take to the bank."

Allred didn't know it then, but Trump gave a clearer statement to CNN in New York two hours earlier.

"We went by the laws of Canada and the laws of the United States, and those laws say that she should be allowed to enter the pageant," Trump said. "So she will be entering the Miss Canada pageant."

When read Trump's new statement, Allred paused for several seconds and said "I stand by my statement. We want this rule eliminated."

"We want a clearer statement that this rule will be eliminated," Allred said. "Step up, say it loudly, say it clearly, this rule will never be in effect again for anyone."

Allred declined to have Talackova react to Trump's decision to let her compete.

"Sorry," Talackova whispered to a reporter, apologizing for her silence.

Allred would not say if her client still intended to compete in the pageant.

Controversy over pageant rules is not new for Trump.

The media stir over Miss California Carrie Prejean's same-sex marriage comments at Trump's Miss USA pageant three years ago raised the profile of that competition.

Prejean, in response to a question from a judge, declared her opposition to same-sex marriage.

Trump initially said Prejean could keep her Miss California title despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage. He eventually fired her for "contract violations," including missed public appearances.

Allred has affected more than beauty contests. She hosted several news conferences in 2010 to reveal evidence that Meg Whitman, who was then the Republican nominee for governor of California, employed an undocumented worker.

The October surprise hampered Whitman's campaign at a crucial time in her race against Jerry Brown, who won the election.

CNN's Doug Hyde contributed to this report.

@highlight

"She should be allowed to enter the pageant," Miss Universe owner Donald Trump says

@highlight

Contestant's lawyer: "We want this rule eliminated"

@highlight

"I am a woman," contestant Jenna Talackova says

@highlight

Officials previously disqualifed the transgender woman from Miss Canada Universe(CNN) -- It's doubtful there's ever a perfect time or place to end a marriage, but for Dean McDermott, that time and place was in a Palm Springs, California, hotel room after playing a round of golf.

Mary Jo Eustace said she's been able to take her 2006 divorce from Dean McDermott and turn it into a positive.

The actor told his then-wife, Mary Jo Eustace, that he'd been having an affair with Tori Spelling and that he'd found his soul mate, Eustace recalled Tuesday on HLN's "The Joy Behar Show."

"[He said], 'I'm leaving you -- she loves me unconditionally,' " Eustace said.

Eustace replied that "you've known her [for] three weeks. I actually thought it was a joke. I thought I was being punked. But it was true," she told Behar.

Eustace offers life lessons she learned from the 2006 split with McDermott in her book "Divorce Sucks: What to Do When Irreconcilable Differences, Lawyers Fees, and Your Ex Husband's Hollywood Wife Makes You Miserable," which arrived in bookstores Monday.  Watch Eustace describe her shock »

Donald Trump's ex-wife Marla Maples; Dina Matos, ex-wife of former New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey; and Lance Armstrong's ex, Kristen, also appeared on Behar's show to break down what happens during and after very public breakups.

When Eustace found out her 13-year marriage was ending, she said she was "in a really ugly bikini -- missing like padding on one side, holding my daughter in my arms," but at least the bomb wasn't dropped in front of news cameras.

Matos was standing right next to her husband when he admitted at a press conference that he'd had an affair with another man.

"I was in shock because I had only learned three days before that he had been involved in a relationship," Matos recalled on Tuesday's show. "I was there in the moment. I was there physically but mentally, you know; I was just trying to maintain my composure and not fall apart in front of the cameras."

When a marriage ends, "you think this is the end of your life as you know it," Matos said. "And in some ways it is. You feel powerless."

Especially once the media picks up on the crumbling matrimony. "The first week that my divorce was announced ... I saw a picture of my ex-husband with his new wife's legs wrapped around his head," Eustace said. "You're in complete survival mode."

Although Lance Armstrong's post-marriage flame, Sheryl Crow, wasn't the reason his five-year marriage to Kristen ended, she told Behar it was still difficult to watch. And yet the hardest part for Kristen Armstrong was disliking her former husband's new love.

"I really wanted to dislike her," Armstrong said. "I really did. [But] she's beautiful. She's smart. She's funny. She was great with the kids. For as much as I wanted to dislike her and I tried, I couldn't."

Matos said it's different when your husband leaves for another man. "When your husband leaves you for another woman, at some point you know there was love in the marriage, and you had something," she said on Tuesday's show.

"But when your husband is not the person that you think he is, you know, he's an impostor -- then you start questioning every aspect of your life together. What was real? Did he ever love me? Why did he marry me? Later I found out why," she said.

After McGreevey announced his affair, Matos said she found papers that appeared to be the outline for a book that said McGreevey married her "for political gain," she said. "He married me because he wanted to become governor and perhaps president. That's very painful."

All of the ex-wives said they've been able to use their divorces as a time to grow. "You feel dehumanized, horrible," Eustace said of divorce.

"With lawyers and fighting and feeling unloved and unlovable, and the media thrown into it, you really have to take care of yourself and to take care of your kids," she said. "It really can be life-affirming ... a wonderful second opportunity in your life. It can be actually, I think, very positive."

@highlight

Joy Behar invited women who went through public divorces onto her HLN show

@highlight

Mary Jo Eustace talked about how hard it was to watch Dean McDermott move on

@highlight

Lance Armstrong's ex-wife, Kristen, said she couldn't hate her husband's new love

@highlight

Dina Matos said ex-New Jersey Gov. Jim McGreevey married her for political gainCrowded by sign-wielding supporters, former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich made what's expected to be his final speech before he heads to Colorado to start a 14-year prison sentence on a corruption conviction.

"This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do," he told the crowd. "But this is the law and we follow the law."

Blagojevich was convicted of corruption in June 2011 after a jury returned 17 guilty verdicts against him. Among other allegations, he was accused of trying to profit as he considered whom to appoint to take Barack Obama's open Senate seat.

Blagojevich called his impending prison stint a "dark and hard journey," and said he should have been more humble.

"We are so grateful and will never ever forget your kindness to us," he told the crowd, which occasionally chanted slogans such as "Free our Governor."

His wife, Patti, remained cinched under his arm, squeezing back tears as the former governor spoke outside his Chicago home.

"This, as bad as it is, is part of a long and hard journey that will only get worse before it gets better," Blagojevich said, telling his wife that he loved her.

His prison stint begins Thursday.

"Governor Blagojevich has always stood up and stood tall. He hasn't hid. And he has truly enjoyed being out in public. He never considered 'sneaking' out of Chicago and miss an opportunity to say goodbye," his spokesman Glenn Selig said earlier.

"It's difficult to put into words the challenges he and his family now face. But he draws strength from the incredible support he continues to receive from the people of Illinois and beyond."

Blagojevich's past statements have been noteworthy for their bluster, such as a defiant news conference in April 2010 when he called his accusers "liars" and "cowards" and directly challenged a prosecutor.

Blagojevich also accused U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald of hiding taped evidence that would prove his innocence during that news conference.

"I challenge Mr. Fitzgerald... Why don't you show up in court tomorrow and explain to everybody, explain to the whole world why you don't want the tapes that you made played in court?" Blagojevich said to reporters at the time.

"I'll be in court tomorrow. I hope you're man enough to show up," he added, referring to Fitzgerald.

Prosecutors said court-authorized wiretaps caught Blagojevich offering Obama's Senate seat in exchange for personal gain, including a job with a nonprofit or union organization, corporate board posts for his wife, campaign contributions or a post in Obama's administration.

He expressed frustration, according to prosecutors, that Obama transition officials were "not willing to give me anything except appreciation."

"I've got this thing and it's (expletive) golden, and, uh, uh, I'm just not giving it up for (expletive) nothing. I'm not gonna do it," prosecutors quoted Blagojevich as saying.

Blagojevich also considered appointing himself to the post, mulling whether he might be better off being indicted as a senator rather than governor, and saying contacts he would make in the federal job would benefit him later, according to prosecutors.

Aside from the charges of trying to sell the Senate seat, prosecutors also accused Blagojevich of using his position to obtain financial benefits for himself, his family and his campaign in exchange for jobs, contracts and appointments to state boards to supporters.

They accused Blagojevich of accelerating the scheme in 2008 to accumulate funds before a new state ethics law would have limited his ability to raise money from people and companies that were doing business with the state.

Despite months of professing his innocence in impromptu news conferences, on Twitter and even on Donald Trump's show "Celebrity Apprentice," the ousted Illinois governor did not take the stand in his own defense during his trial.

@highlight

Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich says goodbye

@highlight

"This is the hardest thing I've ever had to do," he tells crowd of supporters

@highlight

On Thursday he begins serving a 14-year sentence on a corruption conviction(CNN) -- "Saturday Night Live" alum Darrell Hammond was stabbed, beaten and subjected to electrical shocks by his mother during his childhood, which led to self-mutilation and hospitalizations during his later life and while he was performing on the hit TV show, he told CNN.

"I was a victim of systematic and lengthy brutality," the comedic actor told CNN. "My mom did some things which have cost me dearly."

Hammond sat down with CNN for an interview for a CNN Comedy segment, but the tone shifted and it became clear that he had serious things to talk about. What was to be a 20-minute chat turned into a 45-minute conversation that ended in tears as he talked about the problems he faced in his childhood and the path he feels it eventually led him down.

The actor is well known as the funnyman who graced "SNL" to spoof celebrities like Al Gore, Bill Clinton, Donald Trump and Sean Connery. He said there was a darker side that played out in his life, before he became known for those roles, and then later on, backstage before he went out to perform.

"It started to manifest itself when I was 19 years old. That was the first time I ever cut myself," he told CNN.

Hammond said he was put in psychiatric wards from time to time as doctors struggled to figure out what was happening to him.

He said he faced a variety of diagnoses, including bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, and was put on several drugs. While he took them, he called his medications "soul-killing drugs," though he says now he knows they helped stabilize him.

"I was on as many as seven medications at one time," he said. "Doctors didn't know what to do with me."

Hammond says he was medicated almost all of the time he performed on "SNL" each week, but that wasn't all that was happening behind the stage doors.

"There was cutting backstage," he said, adding that one time, he was taken from the studio to a psychiatric ward because of his actions. "In fact, the week that I did the Gore debates, I believe I was taken away in a straitjacket."

So how could a man seen by many as a comedic genius, but who was clearly struggling inside, step up each night to deliver some of "SNL's" most noted caricatures? In part, Hammond said, he didn't want to let anyone down. " 'SNL' was a place where if Lorne [Michaels] judges that you can hit the ball over the wall that night, you're going to go out and step up to the plate," he said. "I didn't want to let Lorne down, who I was close to."

Hammond also spoke of the troubles he faced with his father, who struggled after fighting in a war and dealing with what he had seen. Though he said his father never abused him the way his mother did, it was difficult for Hammond to be around him.

The actor said he had trouble playing John McCain in "SNL" skits because he related to McCain's torture. His father was eager to see his son play the onetime Republican presidential candidate and was unaware of Hammond's difficulty in taking on the role, because he was not aware of the torture his son went through, Hammond said.

Despite the relationships he had with his parents, both of their deaths were tough on him, he said.

Hammond, who has not previously talked about a lot of the troubles in his childhood and during his famed career, has written a book titled "God If You're Not Up There, I'm F-ked," in which he reveals some of his addictions throughout the years. Hammond says he is not hiding his problems anymore.

"I don't feel ashamed of falling down, because I got hit by a Mack truck," he said. "The fact is, I kept trying to get back up, and then I did."

NBC had not responded to a request for comment at the time of publication.

CNN's Jarrett Bellini contributed to this report.

@highlight

Darrell Hammond came to CNN to discuss his career, new book

@highlight

The interview took a dark turn when he said he had been abused by his mother

@highlight

The "SNL" actor ended up in tears talking about his pastWashington (CNN) -- There's a lot to like about Herman Cain. He's funny and personable. He's a great American success story. His 9-9-9 tax plan may be half-baked, but the concept behind the plan -- replace the corporate income tax with in effect a consumption tax -- has a lot to recommend it. (Although, the plan has a lot of problems, too.) Finally, in a political cycle that has seen too many coded racial attacks on President Obama and his family, it's a source of great pride to me to see an African-American topping my party's polls.

If Herman Cain had served as governor of Georgia, or even mayor of Atlanta, he'd be a valid and credible candidate for president of the United States.

But here's the trouble: he has not held those offices or any other executive office at any level of government. He did serve on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City in the 1990s, including two years as chairman -- a distinguished position and an important responsibility, but not one that involves the management of a public agency.

So what?

So everything! The president's most fundamental job is to run the government. That job is very, very hard. The consequences of a mistake are very, very serious.

For that reason, Americans have historically demanded a record of successful accomplishment in public office from their presidential candidates. The current president is an exception to the rule, and -- well -- enough said.

Barack Obama became president despite a negligible record in large part as a reaction against the perceived failures of the George W. Bush presidency. Many voters in 2008 made a calculation like: "Obama may never have governed anything. But George W. Bush was a two-term governor of the country's second biggest state, and he got us into Iraq and a terrible recession. So maybe experience doesn't count. Maybe what we need is a different style: somebody more cautious than Bush, somebody who doesn't always go with his gut."

You might expect Republicans to react similarly against the Obama presidency, demanding from their nominee skills that Obama lacked: administrative experience, negotiating skill, deep policy knowledge.

But no. From Donald Trump to Michele Bachmann to Herman Cain, the Republican activist base has again and again fixed its hopes on people who have never held an executive public office -- and who defiantly reject the very idea of expertise.

Meanwhile Mitt Romney -- the man who saved the 2002 Olympics and who inaugurated the nation's first universal health insurance program as governor of Massachusetts -- can't rise above 25% or so among Republicans. And the seemingly most logical alternative to Romney -- Texas Gov. Rick Perry -- has collapsed in the polls. Perry may not be the sharpest pencil in the pack, but he can at least claim experience in government.

The Trump, Bachmann and now Cain boomlets reveal a worrying disinclination among some Republicans not to value government management very highly. These voters assume that if a candidate professes the right values, he or she will make the right decisions.

Barry Goldwater gave this disregard its classic expression in his "Conscience of a Conservative."

"I have little interest in streamlining government or in making it more efficient, for I mean to reduce its size. I do not undertake to promote welfare, for I propose to extend freedom. My aim is not to pass laws, but to repeal them."

But guess what? Repealing laws is just as hard as passing laws. A president who wishes to extend freedom must still staff his or her administration with people who can do their jobs. And the more you reduce government's size, the more important that what remains should work well.

Back in 2008, National Review editor Rich Lowry talked about a Republican "competence primary." That year, the Republican field was dominated by candidates who could claim some huge success in government: Romney; New York's crime-fighting former Mayor Rudy Giuliani; and the very effective three-term governor of Arkansas, Mike Huckabee. The race was won by John McCain, the man who had devised and pushed the "surge" strategy that turned around the Iraq war.

This time, apparently, the competence primary has been canceled. Too bad. In the depths of the worst economic crisis since the Depression, competence is needed more than ever.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of David Frum.

@highlight

David Frum: Herman Cain is a great American success story

@highlight

He says Cain's tax plan is off-base but the concept behind it is admirable

@highlight

Frum: Cain's lack of executive experience in government is a big problem

@highlight

He says that in today's economic crisis, competence needed more than ever(CNN) -- A few weeks ago, Time Magazine ran its now-famous cover: "The Republican Savior: How Marco Rubio became the new voice of the GOP."

Only time will tell if the junior senator from Florida lives up to that billing, and it's entirely possible that Time will be proven wrong in the coming months and years.

But there's one cover that the magazine could run now and be entirely confident in: "The Republican Messenger: How Rand Paul became the real voice of the GOP."

That's right. At least for the time being, tea party darling Sen. Rand Paul is the effective leader of the Republican Party. And that's a pretty big deal.

The GOP's shellacking in 2012 has thrust a new generation of Republicans -- including leaders like Rubio, Rep. Paul Ryan, Sen. Ted Cruz, and Govs. Bobby Jindal and Chris Christie -- into the spotlight. But it's Paul who has become the clearest voice of the new guard in the Republican Party. And he is effectively driving the entire GOP message right now.

Think about it. No one else in the GOP has been able to step into a real leadership position, no matter how hard they try. Paul Ryan? He's back in the halls of Congress trying to figure out how to repackage his failed fiscal approach. John Boehner and Eric Cantor? Congressional Republicans have an approval rating in the low teens.

John McCain and Lindsey Graham? Each day they seem less like elder statesmen and more like Statler and Waldorf from the "Muppet Show." Chris Christie? He may be the nation's most popular governor, but conservative groups find Sarah Palin and Donald Trump more compelling these days. Bob McDonnell? He's already got a conservative SuperPAC running ads against him in Iowa! Jeb Bush? His reentry to the national political dialogue this week was clumsy at best.

Paul is the only guy who appears able at this point to step into the GOP leadership void. There are two reasons why.

First, Paul has proven that he has the ability to punch his message through in a way that no one else in the Republican Party can.

He's clear. Whether or not you agree with him (and I rarely do), you know where he stands. He articulates his message more clearly than most people in Washington.

He's principled. He's more ideologically consistent than many people in Washington (though admittedly, that's not the highest of bars these days). He's willing to take on leaders of both parties to make a point.

While many senators in his party have held up nominations for petty political reasons, Paul held up John Brennan's nomination over a principled stand that attracted attention from both progressives and conservatives. And as several commentators said after the fact, it's easy to believe that he would have done the same under a Republican president.

Paul's also proven to be a master of both old and new media. Just look at this week. He had the entire traditional political press corps and mainstream media focused on him like a laser beam by utilizing one of the most old school tools available to a senator -- the filibuster. Yet he made it feel new.

For weeks, the press had been reporting on the use of silent filibusters to hold up nominations and on the attempts at filibuster reform. So Paul, by forsaking a tool that so many of his colleagues seem to love, and understanding how to capitalize on an existing media narrative, came across looking courageous and principled and dominated the news cycle for 24 hours. But what made the move truly genius, was that he launched it through Twitter. And as fellow tea party Sen. Ted Cruz stated later on the Senate floor, the twitterverse blew up -- further driving the message in both old and new media.

Compare that to Marco Rubio's response to the State of the Union Address. For all of the hype that led up to his speech, what will people truly remember? That he stopped in the middle to take a drink of water, and that he gave a version in Spanish. That's pretty much it. In the breathless rush to rebrand the GOP by party leaders, that second point was heralded as a major success.

But as to the ability to punch through an actual message, Rand Paul is running circles around everyone else.

The second reason why Paul has become the party's most effective messenger is that everyone across the entire ideological spectrum -- from John McCain, Rubio and The Wall Street Journal to Majority Leader Harry Reid and Attorney General Eric Holder -- is responding to him.

Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz rushed to floor to bask in the glory of Paul's "filiblizzard." Attorney General Holder sent him a letter clarifying the administration's position on drones. Reid and Minority Leader McConnell took to the Senate floor to applaud Paul's conviction (and bladder control).

It wasn't all love, however. Fellow Republican Sens. McCain and Graham took to the floor to blast him for his position. The problem is that they are decidedly old guard. The new faces in the party fell all over themselves to "#standwithrand."

Rand Paul has people listening and responding to him. He's dictating the conversation. And when you look at the ineptitude of the rest of the Republican message machine, it's pretty clear that he is one of the few people in his party that know how to do that.

Van Jones: Rand Paul, a civil liberties hero and civil rights villain

Now, that doesn't mean Paul doesn't have serious problems. On most issues, he is seriously outside of the mainstream. He often gets his facts dangerously wrong -- like when he falsely argued that the number of government employees grew under President Obama, or when he alleged that the U.S. was smuggling weapons out of Libya to Turkey, without any proof.

And at a time when most Americans are starving for leaders willing to cross party lines and find common ground, he is about as far from compromise as you can get.

It's that last point that may be why Paul is so dangerous to the Republican Party moving forward. Paul said this week that he is seriously considering a run for President in 2016. The more he steps in to fill the GOP's gaping leadership vacuum, the more others -- and particularly other potential 2016 presidential candidates -- will chase him.

That means Republican leaders run the risk of seeming even more strident, more intolerant, more uncompromising, and more outside the mainstream than they did in 2012. Those, like Christie, that buck this trend run the risk of being ostracized by the conservative grassroots -- something that not a lot of potential Republican 2016ers have shown much interest in doing.

Even if Paul doesn't become the nominee, he has the potential to shape the GOP field in a way that few others can at this point. In short, for now, it's Rand Paul's party. And it seems like so many other Republicans are simply trying to figure out how to live in it.

(Note: An earlier version of this article incorrectly said the number of federal employees had not grown under President Obama; in fact, the total number of government employees at all levels has not grown since he took office.)

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Mo Elleithee.

@highlight

Mo Elleithee says the week highlighted split in the GOP

@highlight

He says Rand Paul is getting his message out better than Rubio, Ryan, Cantor

@highlight

For GOP, danger is that he Paul could push 2016 further to the right, he says

@highlight

Elleithee: Paul combined old tool of filibuster with new media to make his pointWashington (CNN) -- Call them "unicorners." A liberal group says it has collected more than 19,000 e-mails requesting Arizona officials to confirm Mitt Romney is not a unicorn.

Without such proof, the group Left Action argues with tongue in cheek, Romney may indeed be a unicorn -- his dark mane hiding a horn -- and therefore ineligible to be on the presidential ballot in November.

The farcical campaign mimics efforts by "birthers," and some top supporters of certain Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney, to continually raise the already-settled issue of whether President Barack Obama meets the Constitution's requirements for citizenship.

Romney hits 'magic number' for GOP nomination

"I feel like we've tried logic with the birthers for too long," Left Action founder John Hlinko said Wednesday. "Now it's time to take their arguments to the logical extreme to show how absurd they are."

While steeped in satire, the unicorn-birther matter touches on deeper issues as Obama and Romney head into the November campaign.

Since before Obama's election in 2008, some conservatives have questioned whether he was born in the United States. If not, they said, he was ineligible to serve as president.

Despite conclusive evidence to the contrary, the issue has remained alive, nurtured by the conservative blogosphere and getting raised repeatedly by Republican figures.

Donald Trump, whose 2011 crusade to unearth details about Obama's origins drew global attention and prompted the White House to release the president's long-form birth certificate, raised the issue again last week.

Before campaigning with Romney on Tuesday, Trump bristled when told by CNN's Wolf Blitzer that he was beginning to sound "a little ridiculous" for characterizing the question of where Obama was born as a matter of opinion, rather than fact.

"You are, Wolf," Trump fired back. "Let me tell you something, I think you sound ridiculous."

Wolf Blitzer responds to his Donald Trump interview

The Romney campaign appears anxious to distance itself from the birther issue. When asked Monday about Trump's raising it, Romney said he believes Obama was born in the United States.

"You know, I don't agree with all the people who support me, and my guess is, they don't all agree with everything I believe in," Romney said. "But I need to get 50.1% or more, and I'm appreciative to have the help of a lot of good people."

Obama's campaign jumped on that comment, with deputy manager Stephanie Cutter issuing a statement Tuesday that said Romney's "continued embrace of Donald Trump and refusal to condemn his disgraceful conspiracy theories demonstrates his complete lack of moral leadership."

Meanwhile, the Romney campaign accused Obama supporters of using the issue to distract attention from the high unemployment rate. Romney surrogate John Sununu, a former New Hampshire governor, went further Wednesday, accusing CNN of deliberately focusing on the birther issue in support of Obama.

"Why is CNN so fixated on this? Why don't we talk about the jobs issue in this country?" Sununu asked after CNN's Soledad O'Brien raised the birther issue to start an interview. "It's CNN that wants to bring it up. I don't want to bring it up. Mitt Romney made it clear that he believes that President Obama was born in the United States."

When O'Brien responded that Trump's raising of the birther issue made it a valid question about a possible major contributor to the Romney campaign, Sununu fired back that comedian Bill Maher -- known for politically incorrect commentary -- is a Democratic supporter.

"The fact is that this country has a jobs problem, and supporters of the president like CNN keep wanting to talk about other issues," Sununu said.

Pressed on the matter by O'Brien, Sununu declared, "It's not an issue. There is nobody in the Romney campaign that believes that the president was not born in the United States. Donald Trump is wrong. The president is born in the United States."

Hlinko of Left Action called Sununu's pronouncement "a good start," but he called on Romney and other Republican leaders to make that point directly to birthers to halt what he labeled a racism-tinged attempt to delegitimize the nation's first African-American president.

"It is the Republican grass roots and Republican leaders who keep on raising it," Hlinko said of the birther issue, adding that Romney and other GOP leaders "refuse to actively push back."

"They're not just saying, 'This is nonsense, and it's tinged with racism, and it needs to stop,' " Hlinko said.

While targeted at Romney, the unicorn campaign actually is satirizing last week's justification by Arizona Secretary of State Ken Bennett for threatening to bar Obama from the November presidential ballot.

Bennett, who initially said his office received 1,200 e-mails from Arizonians questioning whether Obama was born in Hawaii, said that he was duty-bound to investigate that public concern.

It didn't matter that the White House last year released Obama's long-form birth certificate from Hawaii. Trump and others question whether the document is authentic, and Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Arizona's Maricopa County -- known for his tough crackdown on illegal immigrants -- has sent a deputy to Hawaii to check it out.

Bennett, a co-chairman of Romney's Arizona campaign, defended the request for proof from Hawaii, telling Arizona radio station KTAR last week that "I don't see anything wrong with verifying something so that as many Arizonans as possible have confidence that the people that appear on the ballot are entitled to be there."

"If I embarrassed the state, I apologize," he said.

When Hawaii later provided the requested proof, Bennett announced the matter settled and said Obama would be on the ballot in Arizona as long as he filed all the proper paperwork.

Hlinko called the episode "asinine," saying it was the "straw that broke the camel's back" for inspiring him to launch the Romney-unicorn campaign.

He created a website labeled www.MittRomneyisAUnicorn.com and spread the word using his network's Internet connections on Facebook and other sites.

"What about the persistent rumors that Mitt Romney is in fact, a unicorn?" the website says, using italics for emphasis. "There has never been a conclusive DNA test proving that Mitt Romney is not a unicorn. We have never seen him without his hair -- hair that could be covering up a horn."

Lampooning the logic of birthers, the website says: "No, we cannot prove it. But we cannot prove that it is not the case. And if Mitt Romney is or may be a unicorn, he is not constitutionally qualified to be president."

On Wednesday, the website said it had more than 19,000 e-mails supporting an investigation by Bennett into Romney's possible unicorn heritage.

Birther theories vary. Some argue Obama was born in Kenya, not Hawaii, and therefore cannot serve as president. Others focus on the fact that Obama's father was not a U.S. citizen, supposedly rendering his son ineligible for the Oval Office.

Earlier this month, the Iowa state GOP wrote a passage into its proposed party platform calling on presidential candidates to "show proof of being a natural-born citizen," beginning with the 2012 election.

"There are many Republicans who feel that Barack Obama is not a 'natural-born citizen' because his father was not an American when he was born and, therefore, feel that according to the Constitution he's not qualified to be president, should not have been allowed to be elected by the Electoral College or even nominated by the Democratic Party in 2008," Don Racheter, chairman of the Iowa Republican Party's platform committee, told Radio Iowa.

In addition, Republican Congress members from Florida, Colorado and Missouri have publicly raised questions about Obama's citizenship in recent weeks.

Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus calls the birther issue a distraction, and Sununu sought to turn the tables on the matter Wednesday by arguing it was the Obama campaign seeking to use the topic to distract.

"I think it's an effort by the Obama administration not to talk about the laws they passed that are strangling specific segments of the American job market," Sununu said.

To Hlinko, Sununu "knows in his heart" that the birther discussion "is a losing issue."

CNN's Peter Hamby contributed to this report.

@highlight

A campaign to reveal "absurd" logic generates more than 19,000 supporters

@highlight

"Birthers" ignore evidence that President Obama was born in Hawaii

@highlight

Republicans keep raising the issue even though top GOP figures say it is dead

@highlight

A Romney surrogate says Democrats seek to distract from jobless issueBeijing (CNN) -- Zhang Xin grew up in poverty and at the age of 14 began a laboring job in a factory. Today, she is richer than Donald Trump, Steven Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey.

Zhang, a Chinese real estate developer, is the seventh richest self-made woman in the world, worth $3.6 billion, according to Forbes. She's worth $800 million more than Oprah Winfrey, the world's best known self-made female billionaire.

Not only does Zhang's rags-to-riches story mirror that of China itself, but it is Zhang who has shaped much of the country's modern urban landscape, with the logo of her company SOHO China on the side of buildings wherever you turn in Beijing.

SOHO China has 18 developments in Beijing, many of them landmark buildings, and has recently expanded to Shanghai, where it has bought or built 11 properties.

Two of her Beijing projects -- one completed last year and another under construction -- are designed by the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Zaha Hadid.

Zhang, 47, was born in Beijing just before Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, when educated people like her parents were sent to the fields for "re-education." She returned to Beijing with her mother, but they endured poverty and hardship.

"I was born and grew up when the city was very quiet: no cars, no shops, no lights, no machines. People were just on bicycles," she said.

At 14, she and her mother moved to Hong Kong, where she spent five years in low-paid factory jobs, manufacturing toys, clothes and electronics, trying to save enough to go to England for an education.

"As a new immigrant to Hong Kong with no education, no background, didn't even speak the local language or dialect, Cantonese, and it was just a hard way to live in Hong Kong," said Zhang.

It took Zhang five years to save enough for a plane ticket to London and an English language course. She won a scholarship to university, studied for a master's degree in economics at Cambridge University and landed her first job at Goldman Sachs in New York.

Instead of remaining in her comfortable life in Wall Street, Zhang returned to Beijing, where she met her husband, and together they started SOHO China.

"There was excitement of people talking about how to change China, and it was a very intellectually vibrant time," she said. "I felt that this country was really making a transition, and I wanted to be a part of that."

Since Zhang and her husband, Pan Shiyi, formed SOHO China in 1995, it has become China's largest commercial real estate developer, with 56 million square feet in prime developments in Beijing and Shanghai.

While Zhang's story is incredible -- giving her celebrity status in China -- it is not unique. Of Forbes' 2013 list of 24 self-made female billionaires, six are from China (including one from Hong Kong), more than any other country outside the United States.

"I think women of our generation went through Cultural Revolution, went through hardship, coming from nowhere, and suddenly see China's amazing opportunity," said Zhang. "So women just seized the opportunity."

Zhang has a following of more than 5 million on Weibo, the Chinese social media site often compared with Twitter, where she shares her views on business, current affairs and architecture.

But despite her financial success, Zhang, who practices the Baha'i faith, avoids excessive trappings of wealth, even suggesting her 14-year-old son find a job in McDonald's or KFC. He tried, but was too young to be accepted.

"It's not easy to be my sons because we're very high profile. We try so hard to give them a normal life," she said.

"I'm very, very tight with them about money. I don't give that money until they ask, 'I need 100 yuan for my lunch card,' and so on. So they never have extra money. But I think that still cannot compare to how we came, where we came (from)."

@highlight

Zhang Xin runs China's largest real estate developer with her husband

@highlight

Worth $3.6 billion, she is the world's seventh richest self-made woman

@highlight

She grew up in poverty during China's Cultural Revolution(CNN)When other women ask Christine Lagarde about coping with failure -- and they often do -- the head of the International Monetary Fund doesn't mince her words.

"Oh get over it. Get over it and move on," says the fifth most powerful women in the world according to Forbes.

"I've failed myself. Twice I tried to enter the National School of Administration in the French system and I failed."

Legarde might have failed twice, but the 59-year-old is a woman of firsts. She is the first woman to chair the global law firm Baker and McKenzie. The first female finance minister of France. And since 2011, the first woman to lead the IMF.

The mother-of-two's philosophy is to learn from her failures, adding: "and then you move on."

"Moving on" is something Lagarde is trying to do now.

Last year magistrates placed Lagarde under formal investigation in regards to a political fraud case, dating back to her days as a French finance minister.

Lagarde is appealing the decision. But how does she cope with the weight of these allegations?

"With strength, with my sense of duty to my country, with the certainty that I made the right choice at the time independently," she said.

We asked other women at the top of their fields about the biggest failures of their careers. Like Lagarde, many said set backs can later become sources of great strength.

"My mother would tell me from a very young age never to be afraid of failing," Huffington told CNN's Leading Women.

"I was absolutely fine taking risks. Trying to get into Cambridge when everybody said you'll never get in, or writing my first book when I was 23.

"A lot of things were likely to fail and many did fail. I mean my first book did well, my second book was rejected by 36 publishers."

The 64-year-old has now written 14 books.

Huffington's advice has been to embrace failure.

"You can recognize very often that out of these projects that may not have succeeded themselves that other successes are built," she said.

One of the Iranian-born Briton's greatest professional disappointments was her rejected design for the Cardiff Bay Opera House in Wales, in 1995.

Hadid won the commission twice, but her building never saw the light of day after it was thwarted by local politicians.

"I know a lot of people thought I would give up, because it was such an awful, painful experience. I remember the day it happened I thought, 'I will not let this finish me,'" she said.

"In a way, it saved me. I think it did make me stronger."

She's the self-made Chinese billionaire who's richer than Donald Trump and Oprah Winfrey.

But it wasn't an easy rise to the top for 49-year-old property mogul Xin, who as a teenager worked in a factory before raising enough money to study in Britain.

Did she come across a lot of failures?

"Every day. I mean, I think that's just life," says the mother-of-two with an estimated worth of $2 billion.

"You will always bump into difficulties, challenges and problems. It appears to be that we seem to be doing quite well, but as it is now, we're still having challenges every day. So I think that's just nothing unique. That's just life."

Described as the "Oprah of Africa," Nigerian talk show host Mosunmola Abudu has interviewed such high profile guests as IMF chief Christine Lagarde and former U.S. secretary of State Hillary Clinton.

However, one interviewee Abudu still dreams of having on her program, "Moments with Mo," is American talk show queen Oprah Winfrey.

So far, Abudu has been unable to make contact with Winfrey. But rather than knock the wind out of her sails, it's made her all the more determined to change the face of African television.

"Of course, there were many knock backs along the way, many people telling me 'you can't do these things,'" said Abudu.

"But I think what's important in life is that you believe in yourself and the things you can do."

Insight: Why women run banks differently

Interview: Nasa's chief scientist wants humans on Mars

@highlight

Five leading women reveal their greatest career failures

@highlight

IMF boss, Christine Lagarde, says: 'Learn and move on'

@highlight

Arianna Huffington and Zaha Hadid say challenges made them strongerWashington (CNN) -- For one week in August, the Republican Party will have a guaranteed place on prime time TV and, it hopes, voters' undivided attention.

For many watching, the Republican National Convention will provide the first glimpse of a political fight that has been brewing for more than a year, presenting the GOP with a new opportunity to argue that it's best prepared to take over after November's election.

"The convention is about unifying the party behind the presumptive nominee," said Matt Burns, communications director for the 2008 GOP convention and currently a managing director with global communications firm Burson-Marsteller. "Speaking slots are often a way to heal old wounds after bruising primaries."

Burns also pointed to a speaker's prominence -- or their status as a "rising star" -- as another factor in determining who to put on the convention stage.

The decisions on who will front the party, then, are loaded with opportunity -- but also the chance for pitfalls.

"The speakers have been chosen because they make the best possible case to elect Mitt Romney and to show the American people the various positions and diversity of the Republican Party," GOP strategist Ron Bonjean said. "They're the ones that have served in the trenches in the primaries and have supported Mitt Romney."

"The ones who are left out are the ones who took shots at him," Bonjean said. "Either challenged or took shots at him, and they may not make the best case for his presidency, or they might try to overshadow him."

Not every convention speech puts the party's best foot forward. Pat Buchanan's "Culture War" speech at the 1992 GOP convention was met with consternation from moderates, who regarded the address -- which included opposition to gay rights and women in combat -- as unnecessarily polarizing. Bill Clinton's speech introducing 1988 Democratic nominee Michael Dukakis was so long that people actually cheered when it was over.

The convention -- set to begin August 27 in Tampa, Florida -- has already put together a roster of speakers that features both the party's establishment and its up-and-comers. Sen. John McCain, who accepted the party's nomination at the 2008 convention, will deliver remarks, as will former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush. Former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice is another well-known Republican who will have a turn at the podium.

Other establishment picks, however, will sit this year out. George W. Bush said he was taking "time off the political stage," and his father, George H.W. Bush, won't attend for health reasons. Former Vice President Dick Cheney, who received a heart transplant earlier this year, will also not appear onstage in Tampa.

Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker and one-time 2012 GOP presidential candidate, will hold daily policy workshops for delegates in Tampa rather than occupy a prime-time speaking spot. Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum will speak in Tampa, but other Republicans who challenged Romney for this year's GOP nomination -- including Rep. Michele Bachmann and former Godfather's Pizza chief Herman Cain -- have not been announced as convention speakers.

Donald Trump, the celebrity businessman and Romney supporter whose commitment to the "birther" movement that challenges Obama's place of birth leaves many Republicans queasy, said through a spokesman last week he would have a "memorable" role at the convention, but that it wouldn't include a prime time address.

Sarah Palin, who delivered a warmly received convention address at the 2008 event, won't speak in Tampa either, saying, "Everything I said at the 2008 convention about then-candidate Obama still stands today."

Julian Zelizer, a CNN contributor and professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University, wrote in a CNN Opinion piece last week that the conventions "create a forum to showcase the talent of the future on a national stage."

They also give parties the opportunity to control what that future might look like.

On Tuesday, the Tampa lineup was updated to include New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in the keynote slot, a high-profile role meant to rally the party behind the nominee. Then-Illinois state Sen. Barack Obama delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention, launching him onto the national political stage and into the White House four years later.

"The keynote speaker is someone that millions of Americans are going to watch, and they have to make the best possible case for Mitt Romney to be president," Bonjean said. "That speaker is extremely important. The campaign is relying on Chris Christie to carry their message to the world who will be watching."

Christie told USA Today he was on the fourth draft of a speech that would include "some very direct and hard truths" about the state of the country -- a glimpse of a straight-talk speech that Republicans have come to expect from the straight-talking Christie. Many Republicans encouraged Christie to run for president and he was seen by many as the best bet for the No. 2 spot on Romney's ticket.

"Speakers who are known for an ability to energize the base receive more prominent roles," Burns said. "Chris Christie is a good example."

Christie's famous swagger excites many Republicans, who like seeing the anger they feel toward bigger government and out-of-control debt reflected in their elected representatives. But his relatively moderate social views, which line up with the state he represents, turn off some in the GOP party base.

Another chance to craft the party's image comes in the person chosen to introduce the nominee. This year that honor goes to Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who will draw cheers from delegates aligned with the tea party, which helped vault Rubio past a mainstream Republican rival in 2010's Florida GOP primary and into the U.S. Senate.

To put that into context, Clinton, a Democratic elder statesman, will put Obama's name into nomination at the Democratic National Convention the next week.

Putting Rubio, as well as Texas U.S. Senate candidate Ted Cruz and New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez (also tea party favorites), in prime-time speaking roles at the convention also signals the GOP's push to bring in Latino voters, who overwhelmingly went for Obama in 2008 and polls show going the same way this time around.

Martinez and Rice, along with South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley and Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin, will also use their convention roles to try to close the gender gap that polls show persists between Obama and Romney.

Ultimately, Burns said, putting together a lineup is about finding people who represent -- and can rally -- the base.

"Fundamentally, convention speaking lineups are meant to represent a cross-section of the party's faithful -- and I expect the 2012 Republican and Democratic conventions to be no exception," Burns said.

CNN's Mark Preston and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report

@highlight

Convention speakers a chance for party to showcase its best in prime time

@highlight

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie will give high-profile GOP keynote address

@highlight

Florida Sen. Marco Rubio gets coveted opportunity to nominate Romney

@highlight

Convention speeches can backfire -- just ask Pat Buchanan or Bill ClintonThink the $18 martini you ordered at the hotel bar was steep?

That was peanuts.

As in, the little dish of complimentary germ-infested peanuts on the bar.

From California to New York and everywhere in between, ritzy bars are playing a crazy game of "Who Can Make the Costliest Cocktail?" -- and the competition is as stiff as the product.

We scoured the country for examples of the most over-the-top pours we could find, excluding those accompanied by crown jewels or crystal goblets.

Even still, you may need to skip a mortgage payment or two to enjoy a night of these extravagant cocktails.

The World Cocktail (World Bar, New York City)

Price: $50

If you want to grab the attention of The Donald, ordering the priciest drink in all of Trump Tower is a place to start.

That drink would be the World Bar's aptly named World Cocktail, a blend of grape juice, lemon juice, simple syrup, 23k edible liquid gold, Pineau des Charentes and bitters, topped with Veuve Clicquot champagne.

When the cocktail debuted in 2002, it was considered the most expensive in the world.

Oh, how times have changed.

8 best beer towns in the U.S.

The Benjamin (Red O Restaurant, Los Angeles)

Price: $100

Mexican cuisine master Rick Bayless made noise in 2011 when his L.A. spot Red O debuted its $100 margarita, dubbed The Benjamin.

So what makes a marg worth a C note?

To start, it uses three exquisite, extra añejo (or "ultra-aged") tequilas: Patron Burdelos, Herradura Selection Suprema and Partida Elegante.

Add some Grand Marnier Cuvee du Cent Cinquentanaire, 100% organic agave syrup, fresh lime juice and Louis XIII cognac to float and you're almost there.

Can't forget the blood orange caviar and edible-gold-and-kosher-salt rim!

The Daiquiri 1981 (The Breadfruit, Phoenix)

Price: $150

This decadent daiquiri was created just last year by Breadfruit co-owner Dwayne Allen to commemorate National Daiquiri Day (which is July 19, so mark your calendars).

The key ingredient is English Harbour 1981, a rare rum aged for a minimum of 25 years in old whiskey and bourbon barrels.

The still on which this rum was originally produced is gone, meaning English Harbour 1981 will eventually run out. Get it while you can in this drink, which also includes hand-squeezed key lime juice, demerara syrup and house-made cherry bitters.

Best eats at 20 busiest U.S. airports

St. John (Osteria 177, Annapolis, Maryland)

Price: $200

The baby of the list, the St. John made its debut mere months ago in Maryland's capital.

Osteria 177 mixologist Lucien Smith, riffing on the classic sidecar recipe, mixed up a cocktail consisting of Louis XIII cognac, Grand Marnier Cuvee du Centenaire, Meyer lemon juice, syrup made from Meyer lemon and Grade 1 saffron and 23k edible gold flakes for garnish.

So far, Smith says they've sold two of 'em.

El Series (El Gaucho, Portland, Oregon)

Price: $220

The bar staff at El Gaucho Portland first made its name in the extravagant cocktails game with The Josephine, a $500 cocktail featuring L'Esprit de Courvoisier and Grand Marnier 150.

Once the bar's stash of L'Esprit de Courvoisier ran out, The Josephine was retired, but its siblings in the "El Series" have carried on the mantle.

A collection of four $220 cocktails, the El Series uses Louis XIII cognac as its base. Entries include the Louis Smash (add fresh mint and a splash of soda) and Louis Sidecar (add Grand Marnier, lemon and orange juices).

Most amazing hotel pools in the U.S.

The JW 1800 (The Lily Bar & Lounge at The Bellagio, Las Vegas)

Price: $480

You've probably come across some member of the Johnnie Walker family in your lifetime, but have you ever met the Johnnie Walker?

You will if you order The Lily Bar's JW 1800.

This cocktail includes "The John Walker," an incredibly rare vintage whiskey that dates to the 1800s.

When we say incredibly rare, we mean it: only 180 bottles exist and once they run out, that's it.

In case you're interested in sipping this endangered species, the JW 1800 also includes sweet vermouth, whiskey-barrel-aged bitters and a Maraschino cherry.

Drinking the Stars (The Starlight Room, San Francisco)

Price: $735

You could easily buy a whole constellation of stars for the price of The Starlight Room's "Drinking the Stars" cocktail.

Originally created by mixologist Jacques Bezuidenhout, the concoction takes 1979 Chateau de Ravignan Bas Armagnac brandy and infuses it with Madagascar vanilla bean, orange peel and raisins.

It's topped off with Dom Perignon, and they'll even leave the bottle with you.

Order a 750 ml version of this drink for $365, or play high roller with the $735 1.5L.

If vanilla bean isn't your bag, the Starlight Room has three more so-called "million dollar cocktails," ranging from $90 to $200.

How to be a New York local: 11 tips for faking it

The $1K and Over Club

All the flashy cocktails above are built on nothing but booze and edible garnishes, but if you're looking for something that comes with a keepsake, there are plenty of even pricier contenders.

The Kentucky Derby has offered a $1,000 mint julep served in a complimentary sterling silver cup for almost a decade, while $3,000 to $40,000 martinis with actual jewelry have sprung up in places like the Foxwoods Resort in Connecticut and the White Barn Inn of Kennebuck, Maine.

The most cocktail Happy-Meal-heavy city is Las Vegas.

In the last few years, Vegas has seen drinks ranging from the Gotham and High Roller martinis at The Capital Grille (perks: necklace or ring) to the Ono at the XS Nightclub (perks: necklace for ladies, cufflinks for gentlemen).

Then there's the Menage a Trois, $3,000 at the Tryst Nightclub in Wynn Resort. The drink itself consists of Cristal Rose champagne, Hennessey Ellipse, Grand Marnier 150, liquid gold syrup and 23k gold flakes.

But you get to sip it out of a complimentary 24k gold-plated straw with its own diamond, making for a trinket that puts all your crazy straws to shame.

Remember, folks, tip that waitstaff well.

America's most luxurious hotel suites

@highlight

Across the U.S. bars are playing a ritzy game of "Who Can Make the Spendiest Cocktail?"

@highlight

Red O Restaurant in Los Angeles serves a $100 margarita

@highlight

At Lily Bar & Lounge in Vegas, $480 gets you drink with a super-rare Johnnie Walker vintage(CNN) -- Prince William went back to school this week. To Cambridge University, to be precise, where he will undertake a tailor-made, 10-week course in agricultural management.

When he completes the course, new father William won't have earned a degree; he won't walk out with a doctorate or a masters; in fact he won't receive any formal qualifications at all, but he will have gained a beginner's knowledge of how to manage the Duchy of Cornwall Estate -- a vast Â£760 million (about $1.25 billion) entity established in 1337 to provide a private income for use by the reigning monarch's eldest son, which William will inherit when Prince Charles becomes King.

As with most matters relating to the monarchy his enrollment has had a polarizing effect: the news was met with staunch criticism amid a smattering of praise, with some university students declaring he'd been given a "free pass" because of his royal status. Others went so far as to describe his admittance as an "insult" to those already studying at Cambridge.

Not surprisingly, people have been quick to jump on the critical band wagon without taking a moment to actually understand exactly what it is he's doing at the university. But since when has receiving further education of any description been something negative?

The type of course William is undertaking is open to pretty much anyone who has the money to pay for it -- land owners, company executives, the posh set. Is it an elitist course? Perhaps. But who could argue that William does not hold an elite position?

Entry for this particular program is not reliant on past grades or previous academic records. Professor Ross Anderson of Cambridge University's Computer Laboratory told the Cambridge News: "Whether they have any A-levels at all is no more relevant than the price of tea in China."

William's course was organized by the Cambridge Program for Sustainability Leadership (CPSL), whose patron is the Prince of Wales, himself a former Cambridge graduate. Charles has been clear regarding his concerns for the welfare of Britain's countryside, and it would appear William is keen to educate himself and continue his father's mission. Surely it is better that he learn how to do it properly of his own initiative than screw it up down the line because his A-level results didn't live up to the Cambridge ideal.

It's no secret that William would like to delay leading a full royal life for as long as possible. That may be hard to comprehend for those slogging away to make ends meet on the minimum wage, but perhaps understandable given that there is no retirement age in a job that calls for a lifetime of service to crown and country.

Rather than attending lectures and seminars and writing essays on economics and land economy, I expect William would rather bolt to Mustique with the Middleton family in the coming weeks for what has become something of a traditional winter break -- as would many of the hoi polloi, no doubt.

But having completed service in all three branches of the British military, performed his first investiture on behalf of the Queen, and represented the Queen for the first time at a State visit, William is now preparing more extensively for the role he will one day fulfill. His royal engagements have been stepped up, and he and the Duchess of Cambridge will undertake a tour to Australia and New Zealand in April. Furthering his education is the natural next step.

Personally I would rather see William fork over private funds in preparation for his future role than squander said funds on Treasure Chest cocktails at Mahiki, the royals' perennial favorite nightclub.

Wherever there are fortunes and family firms, there are heirs to fortunes and family firms. The children of both Richard Branson and Donald Trump have joined their respective family businesses and done exceptionally well. Why? Because they learned their trade beforehand.

Others have enjoyed all the benefits of wealth and a globally-recognized family name only to stumble out of nightclubs and make sex tapes.

Surely it can only be a good thing that William has gone back to school. His course is being paid for privately, not through the public purse. He's putting in the work, and ultimately the British countryside stands to benefit from what he learns.

I imagine Oxford would have been mighty chuffed to have a second heir to the throne walking its hallowed halls. The city of Cambridge is certain to enjoy a rise in tourism due to its famous pupil. Interest in the university itself will increase, and perhaps inquiries about higher education in general will spike.

To me, it seems perfectly fitting that the Duke of Cambridge actually attend Cambridge. He could have hightailed it to Cambridge, Massachusetts, of course -- but then people really would be up in arms.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Victoria Arbiter.

@highlight

Prince William began an agricultural management course at Cambridge University

@highlight

He will gain knowledge of how to manage the Duchy of Cornwall Estate

@highlight

Victoria Arbiter: The news was met with staunch criticism amid a smattering of praise

@highlight

William is keen to educate himself and continue his father's mission, she writes(CNN) -- Disgraced L.A. Clippers owner Donald Sterling dug himself in even deeper during an interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper on Monday night. Sterling purportedly went on CNN to apologize for his appallingly racist rant that V. Stiviano, an attractive young woman whom Sterling calls a "friend," had audiotaped and released almost two weeks earlier. After the team publicly protested his actions and the NBA fined him and banned him from basketball for life, Sterling had a lot to apologize for, and in the interview with Cooper, he apparently gave it his best shot.

Unfortunately for Sterling, though, he only succeeded in confirming the worst that everyone already thought of him. Sterling's "apology" was about as bad as it gets.

Although he claimed to be "so apologetic," his expressions of regret morphed immediately into pleas for forgiveness and self-justification. He cited his 35 years in basketball to argue that he was entitled to "one mistake," a blatant bid to retain ownership of the Clippers that was apparently based on the erroneous assumption that experience trumps bigotry.

He effectively denied responsibility for his offensive behavior by accusing Stiviano of "baiting him," as if any provocation could justify his racist diatribe. For some inexplicable reason, he leveled another blistering attack at Magic Johnson, a beloved sports hero whose foundation has raised millions to promote HIV/AIDS awareness and provide mentoring and scholarships for minority students, arguing that Johnson hadn't done enough for the black community.

Astonishingly, Sterling then blamed Johnson's advice for his failure to come forward soon after the recordings became public. Sterling is an adult, with access to clocks and calendars. He didn't need Johnson to tell him that his opportunity to apologize credibly was quickly slipping away.

Although Sterling's performance Monday night was so utterly abysmal as to call his mental competence into question, the failure of his apology lies not in his delivery but in his intent. Apologies aren't about public relations, they're about human relations, and they're an essential part of maintaining the mutual respect and consideration that people owe to each other no matter how much wealth or power they might have.

An apology can succeed only if it is sincere. To apologize effectively, Sterling would have to be sincerely sorry for the pain he inflicted. Sadly, it was pretty apparent Monday night that he's not. No amount of self-serving blather could cover up his fundamental indifference to the feelings of those he hurt.

For all his pratfalls Monday night, Sterling got three things right.

Opinion: The 5 apology rules that Sterling broke

First, although he did his best to backpedal, he admitted that he had said the ugly things that Stiviano caught on tape. That has serious implications for the L.A. Clippers and the NBA. Basketball players, like other employees, are entitled to protection from illegal employment discrimination. Sterling may deny being racist, but his words say otherwise, and his continued association with the team would call the intent behind every management action into question. The Clippers and their fans don't deserve to see the team mired in allegations of discrimination and threats of litigation. Sterling has become a serious legal risk, and for the good of the game, he really needs to step down.

Second, Sterling was right that a protracted lawsuit over his continued ownership of the team would benefit no one. Litigation is rarely the best way to solve problems, and this would be an expensive, ugly fight that no one would win. It was heartening to hear Sterling say that he'll abide by whatever decision his fellow owners reach. One can only hope that he won't change his mind.

Third, and most important, Sterling was right when he admitted that he'd hurt a lot of people: his ex-wife, the team, the fans, the NBA and everyone else who believes that racism has no place in a decent society. What he doesn't seem to understand is that the feelings of other people matter, and to deliberately injure other people by pretending that their skin color makes them "inferior" is downright shameful. The words hurt, and the attitude behind them hurts still more.

Sterling has every reason to be sorry for what he said and still sorrier for the unexamined arrogance that led him to say it. He owes a lot of people an apology, but until he gets his mind right, anything he says will simply do more damage. It's time for Donald Sterling to step away from the Clippers and spend some time examining his prejudices. Until he's humbled enough to apologize sincerely, though, it would be better for everyone, himself included, if he'd just keep mum.

@highlight

Lauren Bloom: Sterling's self-serving apology confirmed the worst everyone thinks of him

@highlight

Bloom: His pleas for forgiveness and self-justification were a blatant bid to keep Clippers

@highlight

His excuse? He was "baited." She says attacking Magic Johnson is big mistake

@highlight

Bloom: What he got right: Admitted he said ugly things, hurt people, lawsuit too costlyLos Angeles, California (CNN)   -- The sudden end to a legal battle between dethroned Miss California USA Carrie Prejean and pageant officials was prompted by the revelation of a "sex tape," according to a source familiar with the lawsuits' settlement.

Prejean was fired in June after lingerie-modeling photos of her emerged that pageant officials said were a breach of her contract. Prejean sued the pageant in August, arguing her firing was religious discrimination because of her opposition to same-sex marriage.

Pageant officials countersued last month, demanding their former beauty queen repay $5,200 in pageant money spent for her breast implants and give them all proceeds from a book she's written.

A settlement of both lawsuits was signed in New York Tuesday, but no details were made public. Lawyers and parties for each side were bound by a confidentiality pledge, according to the source.

The veil of secrecy was partially lifted Wednesday after celebrity gossip Web site TMZ reported the deal was sealed after pageant lawyers presented an "extremely graphic" home video involving Prejean.

TMZ Managing Editor Harvey Levin said during a webcast Wednesday that he obtained the Prejean video during the summer, but found it "too racy" to post on his site. He indicated Prejean was alone in the video.

The source with knowledge of the settlement talks told CNN those details were accurate.

Prejean's lawyer, Charles LiMandri, responded with a short statement issued through an employee at his law office. "It's a confidential settlement, and he can't discuss it," the statement said.

Several calls and e-mail to Prejean's publicist were not returned Wednesday.

Prejean's tell-all book hits bookstores next week, and she is scheduled for media interviews to promote it.

Pageant spokesman Kenn Henman said Tuesday the settlement means all lawsuit demands are dropped.

The pageant had claimed that the contract she signed when she entered their competition last year gave the pageant the rights to anything she wrote. The settlement ended that claim.

Pageant officials also dropped their attempt to be repaid for her breast enhancement, which was done before she represented California in the Miss USA competition, according to Henman.

Prejean, in exchange, withdrew her suit accusing the pageant of violating her privacy by confirming to reporters that her breasts were enhanced, Henman said.

"We are moving forward from the past and looking towards the crowning of two winners and the new look of the upcoming Miss California USA pageant, telecast live on November 22," pageant Executive Director Keith Lewis said Tuesday.

"We're back in the business of beauty," he told CNN.

There was nothing pretty about the public fight that began in April when Prejean, 22, stepped into controversy by declaring her opposition to same-sex marriage while answering a judge's question at the Miss USA pageant. Prejean finished as first runner-up.

While state and national pageant officials publicly supported her initially, their opinions eventually changed after she continued to make public statements about same-sex marriage.

She held onto her crown through May, despite a series of questionable photos that emerged on gossip Web sites. Those images showed a topless Prejean, photographed from behind.

She was dethroned in June by Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump amid growing complaints by state officials that she was uncooperative and not meeting her contractual obligations.

Prejean filed her lawsuit in Los Angeles County Superior Court in August, claiming that her firing was religious discrimination because of her stand against same-sex marriage.

The pageant's countercomplaint said what it called Prejean's belligerent behavior, lack of cooperation and contract breaches caused her firing, not her opposition to same-sex marriage.

@highlight

Carrie Prejean was dethroned as Miss California USA and sued pageant

@highlight

Source: "Extremely graphic" home video involving Prejean spurred suit settlement

@highlight

TMZ managing editor says he got video during summer but was "too racy" to post(CNN) -- About halfway through The New York Times review of TV chef Guy Fieri's Manhattan restaurant, I realized that the author was wielding a meat cleaver.

Maybe it was Pete Wells' description of the chicken tenders as containing a "shiny tissue of breading that exudes grease onto the plate." Or the "ghostly nubs of unblackened, unspiced white meat" in the Cajun Chicken Alfredo. Or the comparison of Fieri to the writer Calvin Trillin -- if Trillin "bleached his hair, drove a Camaro and drank Boozy Creamsicles."

It was at once delicious and stomach-churning -- a perfect reflection of our rip-their-lungs-out culture.

Let's face it: Media meanness sells. Why slice someone with a surgical precision when you can whack him upside the head with a 2-by-4?

Watch: Why Matt Lauer Is getting a bum rap from mean folks on Twitter

We've all enjoyed the guilty pleasure of seeing some author, actor or filmmaker eviscerated for the sheer sport of it. Good reviews are fine, but what really stirs the water-cooler talk is when the critic draws blood.

But has this trend gone too far in an age when anyone can instantaneously diss anyone else with a single mouse click? Does it amount to pandering to our collective mean gene?

Some public figures revel in the insult wars. Donald Trump has called Rosie O'Donnell "a big fat pig," among other choice phrases, and she's said he keeps returning "like a raging herpes rash." It's a cheap way of getting attention. And the thing is, it works.

Watch: Is it time for Chelsea Clinton, gay marriage activist, to leave NBC?

The most popular pundits on television tend to be pugilists who draw cheers from their partisans for punching out the other guy's lights. When Bill O'Reilly denounces pinheads and loons, his fans eat it up.

Rush Limbaugh caused a furor by calling Sandra Fluke a slut; he later apologized. Ed Schultz called Laura Ingraham a right-wing slut and did the same. Glenn Beck dubbed Barack Obama a racist and his ratings kept climbing. Nice guys don't necessarily finish first.

The virus long ago spread to the political realm.

Watch: Why Rupert Murdoch and other cranky CEOs tweet garbage

Republican Congressman Joe Wilson yelled "you lie!" during President Barack Obama's September 2009 speech to Congress on health care and then used the incident for fundraising. Another congressman, Democrat Alan Grayson, said the Republican health plan was to hope that sick people "die quickly"; he lost the next election but just won his seat back. Yet another congressman, Allen West, called his Florida colleague Debbie Wasserman Schultz "vile" and "not a lady"; he lost his seat during a recount.

Watch: Sex and Sesame Street -- are the media exploiting the Elmo tragedy?

The media, without question, reward incendiary soundbites and intemperate language. That's what keeps the bookers calling, and the resulting visibility can prompt donors to keep writing checks.

Maybe Twitter has played a role in fostering succinct snarkiness. Everyone tries to break through the static and get retweeted.

The new nastiness is evident in scandal coverage as well.

While former CIA director David Petraeus has largely been portrayed as a flawed hero who made a tragic mistake, many in the media have cast Paula Broadwell as a harlot, using lust to achieve her ambition by bringing down a great man. Broadwell, a former senior Army captain, did some dumb things, such as sending harassing e-mails anonymously but doesn't it take two to tango?

The same goes for Jill Kelley, the Tampa socialite who engaged in voluminous e-mail correspondence with Gen. John Allen. Kelley, who volunteered for military causes, is being dismissed in media accounts as a ditzy social climber and worse.

Watch: Lasting leak -- Why Romney's 'gifts' comments diminish him

Meanness wouldn't sell unless there was a market for it. Maybe watching others get sliced and diced makes us feel better about ourselves. Maybe it's just today's version of bread and circuses. And it's a game anyone can play. Ever peruse the comments section on major websites? Readers often start ripping each other as morons and dupes within minutes after a story is posted.

It would be nice if folks with access to the biggest megaphones didn't cater to the lowest common denominator. But that's not the world in which we live.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Howard Kurtz.

@highlight

Howard Kurtz: NY Times' slash-and-burn review of restaurant fed appetite for meanness

@highlight

He says media, politicians take advantage of public's interest in nasty attacks

@highlight

Kurtz: Public figures from Donald Trump to members of Congress revel in nastiness

@highlight

He says media players such as Bill O'Reilly, Rush Limbaugh, Ed Schultz take partLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- A second lingerie-modeling photo of Miss California USA Carrie Prejean has appeared after she assured pageant officials this week that the earlier shot was the only one she had appeared in.

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean may lose her crown because of some semi-nude photos she appeared in.

The Web site that published the first picture published a second one Wednesday. It had already promised to "slowly roll out" more photos.

After the appearance of the first photo, the possibility that racier images could emerge prompted "closed-door meetings" Tuesday to consider stripping Prejean of her beauty queen title, pageant spokesman Ron Neal said.

Although Neal said Prejean "breached her contract" by keeping the semi-nude photo or photos a secret, the only pictures published so far appear about as revealing as the bikini Prejean wore in the pageant's swimsuit competition.

"We have been told by Carrie Prejean there are no other photos other than the one circulating in existence. She should know better than anyone," Miss California USA Director Keith Lewis said Wednesday before the latest photo was released.  Watch reaction to racy photos »

Pageant officials were not immediately available for comment on the new picture.

The 21-year-old Miss USA contestant has been the center of controversy since she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question on the national pageant stage last month. She finished as runner-up to Miss USA.

In a statement given to CNN on Tuesday, Prejean said the photos -- and she did use the plural -- were being used in a "vicious and mean-spirited" effort to silence her for "defending traditional marriage."

While she vowed to "continue to support and defend marriage as the honorable institution it is," Prejean may be doing so without the Miss California USA title.

State pageant officials met Tuesday with lawyers and representatives of Donald Trump, who owns the international competition, to consider whether they had grounds to take the crown away from Prejean, according to Neal.

"When you compete for Miss California, you're supposed to disclose whether you posed for nude or semi-nude photos, because it's grounds for disqualification," he said.

CNN obtained a copy of the pageant contract Prejean signed last year, in which she agreed that the discovery of semi-nude photos could mean disqualification.

The first photo made public shows Prejean -- who said she was 17 at the time -- wearing pink panties and no top. She is turned away from the camera, with her arm hiding most of her breast. The second photo is essentially the same, but Prejean is looking over her opposite shoulder.

It was unclear whether pageant officials would consider that a semi-nude photo, in light of their standard requirement that contestants parade across stage wearing a bikini that arguably shows more skin.

Ahead of the second photo being published, Nik Richie -- of TheDirty.com -- said he was upgrading his Web site's servers to handle the flood of traffic he expects will come after he posts the additional photos.

"I will slowly roll these out," Richie said.

The Web site appeared to be overwhelmed by traffic early Thursday. CNN tried to access it, but could not.

"We'll see what happens with those and we want to know who's releasing them," Neal said.

Shanna Moakler, the co-executive director of the Miss California USA organization, will meet with Tami Farrell, the runner-up for the title, "to discuss the possible next steps," Neal said.

Prejean defended the photos, which she said were taken when she was a teenager aspiring to be a Victoria's Secret model.

"I am a Christian, and I am a model," she said. "Models pose for pictures, including lingerie and swimwear photos."

She said the photos "have been released surreptitiously to a tabloid Web site that openly mocks me for my Christian faith."

"I am not perfect, and I will never claim to be," she said. "But these attacks on me and others who speak in defense of traditional marriage are intolerant and offensive. While we may not agree on every issue, we should show respect for others' opinions and not try to silence them through vicious and mean-spirited attacks."

Her publicist, Melany Ethridge, confirmed a comment she gave to celebrity Web site TMZ in which she said Prejean was 17 when she posed for the photos, hoping they would land her a modeling job.

"In her naivete, an agent convinced her to pose for this photo to submit to a lingerie company, claiming they could make her the next Victoria's Secret model," Ethridge told TMZ. "She has since learned what a lie that was, and what a mistake it was to have the photo taken."

Prejean announced last week that she would star in a new $1.5 million ad campaign supporting "opposite marriage" (marriage between a man and a woman) funded by the National Organization for Marriage.

"Marriage is good," Prejean said at a news conference announcing the ad campaign. "There is something special about unions of husband and wife. Unless we bring men and women together, children will not have mothers and fathers."

CNN's Aileen Martinez contributed to this report.

@highlight

Miss California USA Carrie Prejean says she posed for one semi-nude photo

@highlight

A Web site says it has more photos of Prejean, and plans to slowly roll them out

@highlight

Prejean is in the news for her response to question about same-sex marriageLong Beach, California (CNN) -- Gasoline at $4 a gallon is no worry for T. Boone Pickens, the billionaire energy investor from Texas. He drives from his home to his office in a car that runs on fuel costing less than $1 a gallon.

His method: He has a device that fuels his Honda Civic GX with natural gas from the pipes that serve his home. And he thinks there's a lesson there for America's energy woes.

Pickens, who is speaking Wednesday at the TED2012 Conference in Long Beach, California, said America needs to make natural gas a building block of a plan for ending oil imports from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.

Natural gas is "cheaper, it's cleaner, it's abundant and it's ours, and we're fools not to use it," Pickens said in an interview with CNN.

Pickens, an 83-year-old trained geologist who has been working in the energy field since 1951, said the United States could use domestic resources to replace the 5 million barrels of oil imported daily from OPEC, which makes up a quarter of America's daily use of oil. The U.S. natural gas reserves amount to the equivalent of three times the oil reserves possessed by Saudi Arabia, he said.

"All you need now is leadership," he said, lamenting that America "has no plan, we've gone 40 years with no energy plan. We're the largest user of oil in the world."

Pickens' plan is encapsulated in the Natural Gas Act, a bill with Democratic and Republican sponsors, that would provide tax credits to replace diesel-fuel burning truck engines with natural gas-powered engines; users of natural gas as a transportation fuel would pay fees that would make up for the lost government revenue.

His firm, BP Capital, has a vested interest in energy policy since it invests in energy futures and the shares of firms in a variety of parts of the industry.

He said the worry over increasing fuel prices in the United States rests in part on a lack of understanding of the energy market. Energy prices in America are by far the cheapest in the world, with Europeans paying more than double to fuel their cars and with natural gas costing four or five times as much in Europe and China.

Promises of much lower fuel prices are a fantasy, Pickens said, since the world's demand for oil is roughly equal to the amount that is being produced.

Pickens said the media should challenge GOP presidential candidate Newt Gingrich on his claim that if elected he can lower gasoline prices to $2.50 a gallon.

"You've got Donald Trump saying don't pay OPEC $100 for the oil. Just tell 'em you'll give them $50.

"Really? I go into Trump's hotel, it's $1,000 for a suite and I say I'm not going to give you that, I'll give you $200. I'm on the street looking for another place to sleep. You can't tell 'em I'll give you $50 when the world market is $100. It just doesn't work that way."

He said he still favors wind energy, which was a key part of the "Pickens Plan" he put forth in 2008, but the price of natural gas is now so low that wind projects can't compete economically, Pickens said.

With 70% of everyday oil use going to transportation fuel, he said the impact of putting a much cheaper fuel such as natural gas into the market will be to bring the price of gasoline and diesel down.

His current plan is focused on moving trucks to natural gas, but he said President Barack Obama could also urge consumers to commit that their next car will run on a domestically produced fuel, whether it's natural gas or a plug-in electric vehicle.

A Wall Street Journal editorial Tuesday, headlined "Boone-Doggle," called Pickens' plan "the hottest energy fad in Washington" and criticized it for proposing subsidies for a natural gas industry that should compete on its own.

The start-up costs of relying on natural gas for transportation aren't cheap. The cost of replacing truck engines is roughly $35,000 apiece, Pickens said. His own natural gas car costs thousands more than a gasoline-powered Honda Civic, and then there is the cost, which he said was $2,000, to install the natural gas fueling device for the car.

And U.S. consumers have only that one natural gas model from which to choose. In France, he said, there are 62 models that use natural gas. Pickens said American carmakers do produce such vehicles for overseas markets but have not seen a viable market in this country.

One of the concerns is that there isn't a widespread network of service stations that could refuel a natural gas-powered car. Pickens said natural gas is available in pipes that go down every street and alley, so it could eventually be more accessible for refueling.

"Somebody says you couldn't get in that car and drive to Chicago, well, you could -- you'd have to do a little work to see where the stations are, but I'm not going to drive that car to Chicago, I'm going to drive that car from my house to my office."

And if he is going on a trip to Chicago? "I'm going to get in my wife's car. She has a bigger car. Women always have bigger cars than men do."

@highlight

Energy investor T. Boone Pickens: America needs leadership on energy

@highlight

He says vast reserves of cheaper, cleaner natural gas could displace OPEC oil

@highlight

Pickens: U.S. could have a more secure energy system and help control gas prices

@highlight

He commutes in a natural gas-powered car whose fuel is less than $1 a gallonWashington (CNN) -- The White House released copies of President Barack Obama's original long-form birth certificate Wednesday, seeking to put an end to persistent rumors that he was not born in the United States.

The certificate states, as Obama's advisers have repeatedly said, that the president was born at Honolulu's Kapiolani Hospital on August 4, 1961. Doubters insist Obama was born overseas -- possibly in his father's home country of Kenya -- and may be constitutionally ineligible to serve as president.

"We do not have time for this kind of silliness," Obama told reporters at the White House. "I've been puzzled at the degree to which this (story) just kept on going."

"Normally I would not comment on something like this," the president said. But the country has "some enormous challenges out there" that it will not be able to effectively meet "if we're distracted."

PDF: See a copy of the certificate

"We're not going to be able to (meet those challenges) if we spend time vilifying each other," he stressed. "We're not going to be able to do it if we just make stuff up and pretend that facts are not facts. We're not going to be able to solve our problems if we get distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers."

Obama released a shorter, legally binding "certification of live birth" in 2008, but failed to persuade members of the "birther" movement.

The administration had to make a special request from the state of Hawaii to get the long-form certificate released, White House legal counsel Bob Bauer said. Typically, the state only releases the shorter, computer-generated live birth certification when people request such documentation.

CNN investigation: Obama born in U.S.

Obama's personal attorney, Judith Corley, picked up certified copies of the long-form document in Hawaii and brought them back to the White House Tuesday evening, Bauer noted.

While the president has tried to make light of the controversy, the question has remained political red meat for some of his critics. A recent CNN/Opinion Research Corp. poll showed that nearly 75% of Americans believe Obama was definitely or probably born in the United States. More than four in 10 Republicans, however, believe he probably or definitely was not born in America.

The U.S. Constitution says only "natural born" citizens can become president -- a vague clause that followers of the birther movement contend disqualifies Obama from the presidency, since they believe he was born overseas.

"The president believed the distraction over his birth certificate wasn't good for the country," White House Communications Director Dan Pfeiffer said. "It may have been good politics and good (television), but it was bad for the American people and distracting from the many challenges we face as a country.

"At a time of great consequence for this country -- when we should be debating how we win the future, reduce our deficit, deal with high gas prices, and bring stability to the Middle East, Washington, D.C., was once again distracted by a fake issue," Pfeiffer said. "The president's hope is that with this step, we can move on to debating the bigger issues that matter to the American people and the future of the country."

Pfeiffer told reporters that the birther debate has been politically damaging to the Republican Party. Regardless, the issue remains potent in GOP circles. Potential Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump recently seized on the issue, saying he had doubts about the president's background.

Following the White House's release of the long-form certificate, Trump told reporters in New Hampshire that he is "very proud" of himself for helping to bring about the release of the document.

Trump stands by "birther" claims

"I've accomplished something nobody else was able to accomplish," Trump said. "I'd want to look at (the birth certificate), but I hope it's true so that we can get on to much more important matters."

Obama "should have (released the certificate) a long, long time ago," he said.

Trump, a billionaire business tycoon and reality television star, blamed the media for repeatedly bringing up the issue. Trump, however, has frequently raised questions about Obama's birthplace during his climb in recent GOP primary polls.

What's your take on the birth certificate release?

Allegations that Obama was not born in the United States have been repeatedly discredited. A recent CNN investigation turned up no evidence to support the birther claims.

"This has long been a settled issue," said Michael Steel, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio.

The president acknowledged Wednesday that the release of the long-form certificate won't satisfy a "segment of people for which, no matter what we put out, this issue will not be put to rest."

"But I'm speaking to the vast majority of the American people, as well as to the press," he said. "We've got better stuff to do."

Later Wednesday, Obama told a New York fundraising event that "part of what happened this morning was me trying to remind the press and trying to remind both parties that what we do in politics is not a reality show. ... It's serious."

@highlight

NEW: Obama says "what we do in politics is not a reality show"

@highlight

Donald Trump claims credit for forcing the release of the certificate

@highlight

The White House releases President Obama's long-form birth certificate

@highlight

The White House says the issue is bad politics for the GOP, but is a distraction(CNN) -- First things first: I didn't watch Monday night's Miss Universe Pageant. I did not even know it was on.

The last time I might have tuned into such a program was in middle school, the height of insecurity. I was short, scrawny and getting used to my first pair of oversized glasses. My thick dark hair wouldn't lay flat like the blondes with their perfect wispy bangs. Not yet "developed" like many of my peers, I'm sure watching glamorous half-naked models parade around on stage was just what my young psyche needed.

When I came into work Tuesday morning, I was greeted with an e-mail that made me think about the pageant for the first time in decades. It contained the final question posed to finalist Leila Lopes of Angola, now our universe's newly crowned Miss Universe.

"If you could change one of your physical characteristics," the designated judge asked her, "which one would it be and why?"

Are you (insert profanity) kidding me?

After standing under the magnifying glass of millions, this 25-year-old, 5-foot-10 Â½-inch knockout had to publicly contemplate if she was physically good enough.

Her response was quick: "Thank God I am very-well satisfied with the way God created me, and I wouldn't change a thing. I consider myself a woman endowed with inner beauty. ... I have acquired many wonderful principles from my family, and I plan to follow these through the rest of my life. And now I would like to give all of you a piece of advice: Respect one another."

Her answer was applauded. Lopes' win, the first for Angola, was announced soon after.

Maybe it's absurd to be dismayed that a question like this would be posed at a beauty pageant. In my worldview, the mere fact that pageants exist is absurd. And I'm not alone.

"It fits into the narrative du jour for women -- my body is infinitely malleable," said Courtney Martin, editor of Feministing.com and author of titles including "Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: How the Quest for Perfection Is Harming Young Women."

"If I have enough willpower and money, I can look like anyone," she said. "This invisibilizes physiology and metabolism and leads women to internalize shame when so much is simply not in their control."

We live in a world where in the United States alone $10.1 billion was spent on cosmetic procedures in 2010, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. And Miss Universe has got to be the apex of all pageants -- the ultimate aspiration for all those fake-tanned toddlers running around in tiaras, between tantrums, on reality-TV.

But, seriously, who came up with this question?

Each of the five finalists was asked something different. One judge asked Miss China about nudity on beaches. Another asked Miss Brazil about her stance on war. Miss Philippines had to contemplate if she'd change her religious beliefs in order to marry, and Miss Ukraine was invited to ponder whom in history she'd trade her life with if she had the chance.

Lopes drew from a bowl the name of the judge who would ask her a question. Lea Salonga, an award-winning Filipina singer and actress who made a name for herself on Broadway, was the voice behind the question. She looked down at a card and read.

But it turns out the question wasn't Salonga's. On Twitter, her fans wanted to know why she asked such a thing.

Salonga tweeted that she did not write the question. "All our questions are pre-written and each judge is assigned one. Luck of the draw," Salonga tweeted.

The questions were "written by the guys at Miss Universe" she said in a response to one fan. "We had no say" in what the questions would be, she said in another.

Follower @sassy_dimple wanted more.

"I am surprised they have that (question) on their list," she said. "But if you are given the chance to ask a question to any of the candidates, what would it be and why?"

"It would have been on feminism and pageants, gay marriage, or separation bet. church and state," Salonga responded. "Something like that."

Salonga reiterated Tuesday afternoon in a written statement to CNN that she and the other judges had no say when it came to the questions.

"As for the quality of the actual question, I don't have much of an opinion on that (truth be told, it's a standard beauty contest query... I would have asked about something more controversial...)," she wrote. "At the end of the day, it wasn't so much the question asked but the manner in which it was answered."

Good enough.

I reached out to the "guys at Miss Universe" to ask them about their line of questioning. My calls and e-mails went unreturned.

So I turned to THE guy, Donald Trump, owner of the Miss Universe Organization and, oh yeah, one-time potential candidate for U.S. president. I asked him to explain why this was a question worth asking. I also tossed the query back to him.

Mr. Trump, if you could change one of your physical characteristics, which one would it be and why?

I'm still waiting for his answer.

@highlight

Miss Angola 2011, Leila Lopes, was crowned Miss Universe Monday night

@highlight

She was asked what physical characteristic she'd change about herself

@highlight

Her answer, one heartily applauded, was that she wouldn't change a thing

@highlight

But who decided this was a question worth asking?(CNN)  -- Donald Trump visited "Larry King Live" on Wednesday night to tout his new book, "Think Like a Champion." In a wide-ranging interview, Trump shared his thoughts on how to prosper in this economy, Bernie Madoff, how President Obama is doing, taxes and his daughter's love life.

On CNN's "Larry King Live" Wednesday night, Donald Trump said it's a great time for entrepreneurs.

The following interview has been edited for brevity and clarity:

Larry King: Why this book?

Donald Trump: A lot of people wanted me to do a book right now about these troubled times that we're all in.

And it's been sort of interesting. They're great times, as an entrepreneur. I don't think I've ever seen better times as an entrepreneur. But the world is a mess, and the country is a mess.

King: Why [is it a] good time for an entrepreneur and not necessarily for others?

Trump: Well, this is a time for smart people. This is a time for entrepreneurial people. This is a great time for people like me -- and maybe people like you, Larry, because I know you're a great investor. ...

Weren't you involved with [Bernie] Madoff?

King: A little bit, yes. You weren't, huh? How did you resist him?

Trump: Honestly, I got lucky. He might have duped me like he did a lot of other people. He is a disaster. But now he's where he belongs.

King: With troubled times like this for the average guy, is this the time to think like a champion?  Watch Larry King's entire interview with Donald Trump »

Trump:  This is the best time to think like a champion. As an example, the house is being foreclosed. You go see your bank -- maybe you can make a deal, maybe you can't. But you can make a deal with a bank on another house, and much better than the one you're living in. ... They'll do any deal to get rid of their product.

They have houses by the thousands. And you go see that bank and you make a deal.

King: How do you assess [Barack Obama]?

Trump: Well, I really like him. I think that he's working very hard. He's trying to rebuild our reputation throughout the world. The previous administration was a total disaster, a total catastrophe.

And, you know, the world looks at us differently than they used to. ... He was handed a pretty bad deck of cards. And I'm not saying I agree with everything he's doing. ... I do agree with what they're doing with the banks. Whether they fund them or nationalize them, it doesn't matter, but you have to keep the banks going.

King: Do you assess him as a champion?

Trump: Oh, yes, he's a champion. I mean, he won against all odds. When he first announced, people were giving him virtually no chance. And he's just done something that's amazing.

King: Is fear harmful in this [economic] situation, Donald, or is it realistic?

Trump: Well, I think it's realistic. People are afraid. They're scared. They're losing their jobs. They're losing their homes. And certainly there is a word known as fear, and there's nothing wrong with being fearful.

But you have to do something about it. And that's what I write about in the book. You go out. You go to the right place, where there's better employment. You get a trade where they really need people.

King: Have you had to lay off people? Because it seems everyone has had to do that.

Trump: It's a sad thing, but whether it's "The Apprentice" or not,  the fact is you have to say to some people: "You're fired." The world is different.

King: You said that this is a good time to buy real estate. What about financing? What if you want to buy and you can't get the mortgage?

Trump: Larry, this is a great time to buy real estate.

And as far as financing is concerned, the only financing you should be thinking about is seller financing. If the seller won't give you financing, don't do it, because the banks are not doing their job. They're not providing financing for deals.

King: New York state is planning a so-called millionaire's tax. It would affect those with incomes starting at $300,000. Yea or nay?

Trump: Well, it's a ridiculous thing. Albany is going to destroy  ... this state. And they are raising taxes on rich people. The rich people have lots of options, Larry. One option is Palm Beach, Florida. You move down to Palm Beach; it's not the worst thing in the world. I don't have to live on Fifth Avenue. I don't have to live on Park Avenue.

It's hard, psychologically, for me to leave, but very easy physically.

King: Why don't patriots want to pay taxes?

Trump: Well, I don't know that that's necessarily unpatriotic. I think they want to pay taxes. Obviously, you have to pay taxes. But they want to pay a reasonable tax, and they don't want to see the money squandered. Money in this country is being squandered.

King: OK. But then we would debate reasonable.

Trump: Well, you always debate reasonable. I think unreasonable is the war in Iraq. I mean, there's $1 trillion right there. And, more importantly, thousands of people -- both on our side and the other side -- hundreds of thousands of people killed and maimed and so badly hurt, I think it's just a shame. Now, to me, that's unreasonable.

And, by the way, ... Saddam Hussein did not knock down the World Trade Center.

King: Has the economy at all cramped your lifestyle? Anything you had to change?

Trump: No, because I think I understand life. I think I understand how to live. I'm enjoying my life. I don't really live in an as extravagant a way as people think. As an entrepreneur, this is the best time I think I've ever seen in business.

King: There's buzz that your beautiful daughter Ivanka is engaged or getting engaged. What's up?

Trump: She has a beautiful boyfriend. He's a great guy, but they are not engaged.

King: Would you like them to? Is he the kind of guy you would except as a son-in-law?

Trump: He certainly is a wonderful guy. But it's all up to her. If she's happy, I'm happy.

@highlight

Trump advises to take advantage of low prices, get seller to do the financing

@highlight

Trump: Obama rebuilding U.S. reputation; previous administration was a disaster

@highlight

He's mad about possible higher taxes in New York, says he could move to Florida

@highlight

Trump likes the guy his daughter is dating, but she's not engagedJust when you thought you might enjoy a week without any news of Justin Bieber annoying the world, along comes evidence that the most beloved/disliked self-involved teenager on the planet has broken one of the most sacred unspoken rules of travel -- don't use your bodyguards to carry you up the Great Wall of China.

More: Doh! 20 biggest travel mistakes

Photos of the seemingly able-bodied Canadian pop star hoisted on the shoulders of his minions at the iconic site were posted on the Twitter page of BelieveTourUpdates, which has been following the singer on his current world tour.

"Justin being carried by his bodyguards up the Great Wall of China today in Beijing, China (September 30th, 2013)," reads the caption of one of multiple photos of Bieber at the Wall.

Even less shocking than the Biebs' fanatical devotion to privileged behavior, the Internet nearly imploded under the weight of all the mockery and rage calling out the diva antics.

Commenters include fed-up Canadians begging the United States to adopt Bieber as one of their own.

More: How to find a great escape in the Great Wall

Netizens in the country where the scene of the alleged travel offense occurred weren't shy about expressing their thoughts either.

On Weibo, China's microblogging site, a Phoenix TV presenter posted: "The way this 'xiao pi hai' Justin Bieber hits the Great Wall is really extravagant."

"Xiao pi hai" is a word used to describe Chinese toddlers who wear toilet-training-friendly pants that expose their bare behinds.

More: Bieber hopes Anne Frank 'would have been a belieber'

These days, it's a popular phrase used to describe someone who's immature.

"It's impressive that he can sit there without a guilty conscience," Weibo user Project V commented.

"Seriously? Justin Bieber is so weak that he needs two guards to carry him on the Great Wall?" posted Taiwanese website Nownews, hopping aboard the Bieber hate-train. "Isn't climbing the Great Wall all about experiencing the breathtaking process during the hike?"

More: Germany asks Bieber to pay costs of caring for his monkey

The 19-year-old star performed in Beijing on September 29.

Next up on the Bieber world tour: stops in Dalian, China (October 2), followed by performances in Shanghai (October 5) and Tokyo (October 7).

Now, if the ambulatorily challenged, faux Canadian (someone have Donald Trump check this guy's birth certificate) gets someone to haul him up Tokyo's SkyTree, we'll be impressed.

At least with the person doing the heavy lifting.

More: Insider guide to Tokyo's SkyTree

@highlight

Photos showing Justin Bieber on shoulders of bodyguards at Great Wall of China invoke mockery around globe

@highlight

Chinese TV compares Bieber to a toddler wearing open-backed toilet-training pants

@highlight

The singer performed in Beijing on September 29 as part of his world tour(CNN) -- President Barack Obama invoked Donald Trump's name during Wednesday's presidential debate, claiming that GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney would consider the mogul's empire a small business.

"Under Governor Romney's definition, there are a whole bunch of millionaires and billionaires who are small businesses," President Obama said. "Donald Trump is a small business. Now, I know Donald Trump doesn't like to think of himself as small anything -- but that's how you define small businesses if you're getting business income."

The facts:

While there is no universally accepted definition of a small business, the federal government defines it as any business that employs fewer than 500 people.

The Trump Organization employs 22,000 people. But Trump also runs a number of other companies that employ fewer than 500, meaning that -- under the federal government's definition -- he qualifies as a small business.

According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, which uses the 500-worker maximum in its definition, such firms employ half of all private-sector workers and pay 44% of the total U.S. private payroll. In 2009, there were 27.5 million businesses in the nation, 99.7% of which were small firms.

Complete coverage of CNN's Fact Checks

IRS data on the highest-income people in the country underscores that small business does not necessarily mean small profits. Of the top 400 people â€” who got $19.8 billion in S corporation and partnership net income in 2009 â€” 237 count as small businesses.

An analysis by the Urban Institute-Brookings Tax Policy Center finds that extending tax cuts for people who make more than $250,000 per year ($200,000 for single filers) would disproportionately help the richest taxpayers: 82% of the cut would go to people with more than $1 million in adjusted gross income, who would get an average tax cut of $164,000 apiece.

Romney's plan does not single out small businesses for special treatment. His plan attempts to lower taxes on all businesses -- big or small.

Conclusion: While Romney's plan does not define who is or is not a small business, some of Donald Trump's companies would qualify as a small business because they have fewer than 500 employees.

Fact Check: Green energy

Fact Check: Job creation versus unemployment

Fact Check: Oil and gas production

CNNMoney's Small Business Reporter Jose Pagliery and CNN's Diane Laposta contributed to this report

@highlight

Obama says Trump is a small business under Romney plan

@highlight

The government defines small business as having under 500 workers(InStyle) -- It's almost engagement season -- that time of year around Thanksgiving, the holidays, and New Year's when everyone seems to listen to Beyonce and Put a Ring On It. Click through the gallery to get all the details about 10 of the biggest and best sparklers ever to grace the left ring fingers of our favorite celebrities.

See even more celebrity engagement rings!

Elizabeth Taylor and Michael Todd

Movie producer Michael Todd proposed to Elizabeth Taylor with a massive 30-carat diamond ring. The couple married in 1957.

Jessica Biel and Justin Timberlake

Justin Timberlake proposed to wife Jessica Biel in December 2011 while vacationing in Montana with an 18-carat white gold and black rhodium plated ring. The setting featured two aquamarines on either side, Biel's birthstone.

Beyonce and Jay-Z

Jay-Z proposed to Beyonce with an 18-carat diamond ring; the couple married in 2008.

10 Non-Traditional Celebrity Engagement Rings

Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge and Prince William

Prince William proposed to his longtime girlfriend in 2010 with the same 18-carat sapphire and diamond ring that his father, Prince Charles, gave to his mother, Princess Diana.

Mariah Carey and Nick Cannon

Nick Cannon proposed to pop diva Mariah Carey with a stunning 17-carat emerald-cut pink diamond ring surrounded by 58 pink diamonds. The couple married in 2008.

The 50 Best Dressed Celebrity Brides of All Time

Melania Knauss and Donald Trump

Billion-dollar real-estate mogul Donald Trump proposed to Melania Knauss with a stunning 12-carat ring in 2004.

Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux

Justin Theroux proposed to actress Jennifer Aniston in August 2012 with an oval diamond estimated to be between 12 and 18 carats.

Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier III

Prince Rainier III of Monaco proposed to legendary Hollywood beauty Grace Kelly with a 10.5-carat square-cut diamond ring in 1955.

100 Memorable Celebrity Wedding Moments

Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt

Brad Pitt proposed to longtime partner Angelina Jolie in April 2012 with a rectangular diamond ring estimated to be more than 10 carats.

Anne Hathaway and Adam Shulman

Actor Adam Shulman popped the question to Anne Hathaway in 2011 with a 6-carat emerald-cut diamond ring by New York jewelry company Kwiat.

Get a FREE TRIAL issue of InStyle - CLICK HERE!

Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

Movie producer Michael Todd proposed to Elizabeth Taylor with a 30-carat diamond

@highlight

Jay-Z proposed to Beyonce with an 18-carat diamond ring; the couple married in 2008

@highlight

ick Cannon proposed to pop diva Mariah Carey with a 17-carat emerald-cut pink diamondLos Angeles (CNN) -- Reality for TLC's T-Boz has been a challenge, starting at age 7, when she was diagnosed with sickle cell anemia.

"I was told I wouldn't live past 30, I would be disabled my whole life and I would never become a mother," T-Boz, a member of one of the most successful girl groups ever, told CNN. "My daughter is Chase. She's 12. I've traveled the world in one of the best groups ever. I'm 42."

Reality called again five years ago when doctors found a brain tumor, which left her partially blind and deaf.

"But after losing my sight, hearing, balance and speech, yes, I'm returning," said T-Boz, whose real name is Tionne Watkins. "I had to take three years to heal and fight for everything that I wanted back.

T-Boz is sharing the lessons learned from hard reality in a reality TV show that premieres Tuesday night, coincidentally on a network with the same name as her group -- TLC.

"It's about 20 years later, me coming back from the brain tumor and doing things I want to do," she said. "You'll hear about all that in the show, my real-life struggles, being a single mother. I don't care how much money you have in the world. It's not about that. It's all about time. I'm in charge of raising a young woman one day, to be a mother and hopefully a wife. All of that. As you know, being a parent, that's probably the hardest job ever"

"Totally T-Boz" is real -- especially compared with most shows, she said: "They're fake as all get-out, right? I'm real."

Her experience with reality TV includes being fired by Donald Trump on "Celebrity Apprentice" in 2009.

"If I'm not the chick you want, because you don't want that, then they'll probably censure me," she said. "That's fine, but I'm staying me, because I'm happy and I've always been happy in my skin."

Like other entertainers who disappear from the spotlight for a while, T-Boz never stopped working while she focused on raising her daughter and fighting for her health.

"I get a lot of 'Oh, you've been gone,'" she said. "I wasn't gone. Just because you didn't see me doesn't mean I wasn't working and collecting checks. I just wasn't singing and doing videos. I do a lot of other things, like I said, like writing scripts and stuff like that. I write for other artists."

When a doctor told her that her headaches were caused by a tumor, "I said 'Say huh? Say huh?" she said. The diagnosis triggered a string of emotions, but never anger, she said.

"I had that fight," she said. "I want to live. I didn't have time to die."

The hardest time was not knowing if the tumor was cancerous and if it would kill her, she said.

She began a desperate search for doctors she trusted who did not look at her "just like I was a dollar sign," she said.

"They're like, 'You know, sickle cell can cause complications because it will turn on your body, your heart and lungs. You could just die, have a stroke," she said. "I was like, Jesus, Lord, what's going on?"

Some doctors told her removing her tumor through surgery would be too complicated. "It's just like they wanted to still keep the tumor in my head, and maybe burn some of your cells and you may not remember something."

"In my gut, I know if I had stayed in Atlanta, and let them touch me, I wouldn't be here," she said. "I wasn't going to make it through those surgeries. I was going to die. And I felt that."

She chose a Los Angeles doctor to oversee her treatment and brain surgery at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.

"I said, 'I know this is him in my heart," she said. "I packed up my stuff and my family and I came here."

But she had to make a decision.

"I had to give the order of what I wanted to be saved," she said. "So I said my face first, because you couldn't look at me and tell I'm deaf or blind. My hearing second, because I still want to hear and sing and have my speech. And then my balance. So they took my balance completely from the right."

But after three years of physical therapy to teach her brain how to compensate for the loss of balance, "mostly everything else is back. I can hear and see and I can speak," she said. "So I am blessed."

When you meet her now, it's hard now to tell anything was ever wrong with T-Boz.

"I still have a crooked smile and just certain things I deal with, but I'll take all of that to be back here and be Chase's mother," she said.

Predictions of her lifespan are still pessimistic, but her optimism rejects them.

"Now they're saying 45, and I plan to be talking to y'all at 56," she said. "I'd rather take over the disease than let it take over me. Let's put it that way."

T-Boz has a lot left to do. This year is the 20th anniversary of when she teamed with Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes and Rozonda "Chilli" Thomas as TLC.

VH1 is producing a bio-pic about them, which means T-Boz is back in the studio working on the soundtrack.

"It's going to be hard to see who can dance like us," she said. "I don't even think I could do me again. Could I do T-Boz again the way I did it?"

The reunited group -- with a replacement for Lopes, who died in a 2002 auto accident in Honduras -- will also tour to support the release of a new album, which includes two new singles.

And T-Boz has her own song out called "Champion," with the profits going to a charity for children with blood disorders.

"There's a lot of people who have been going through what I went through and I want to help whoever I can," she said. "I want to share my story because I think God spared me for a reason. I think that I'm supposed do something with it."

@highlight

"After losing my sight, hearing, balance and speech, yes, I'm returning," T-Boz says

@highlight

The TLC singer is a survivor of sickle cell anemia and a brain tumor

@highlight

"Totally T-Boz" premieres Tuesday night on TLC

@highlight

2013 is the 20th anniversary of when T-Boz teamed with "Left Eye" and "Chilli"(CNN) -- An unapologetic Donald Trump insisted Sunday that he is "the least racist" when pressed as to whether racism motivated his recent focus on President Obama's birth certificate and academic qualifications.

The millionaire-turned-television host spoke with CNN's Don Lemon about the White House Correspondents Dinner and whether a presidential bid was in the offing, before the conversation turned to matters of race and comments made earlier in the day by CBS' "Face the Nation" host Bob Schieffer.

Schieffer's comments were in response to Trump's public questions about Obama's academic degree.

"The word is, he wasn't a good student and he ended up getting into Columbia and Harvard," Trump said recently. "I'd like to know: How does he get into Harvard, how does he get into Columbia if he isn't a good student?"

Referencing those comments, Schieffer said on his Sunday program, "that's just code for saying 'he got into law school because he's black.' This is an ugly strain of racism that's running through this whole thing."

Schieffer's statement referenced an internet meme that has grown rapidly in recent weeks, fueled by comments from public personalities, like "The View's" Joy Behar and Whoopi Goldberg, other media personalities and academics.

"Racism by inference" is how African-American professor Michael Eric Dyson, also on "Face the Nation," described it.

"Skepticism about black intelligence and suspicion about black humanity have gone hand in hand throughout the history of this country in feeding the perception that black people don't quite measure up," he said.

"He is standing in for the rest of us as African-Americans," Dyson added. "We are constantly questioned as to our legitimacy - whether we belong or not."

But when Lemon questioned Trump Sunday night about race stereotypes, he insisted, "I am a wonderful person as far as you would be concerned as to race. And I think everybody that knows me knows that."

Trump said repeatedly that people who know him "would laugh" at the suggestion that he is racist.

Lemon also asked Trump about his recent use of the term "the blacks" to refer to black people. But Trump said the issue was a diversion.

"I have many, many black friends who said to me, 'absolutely not a problem.' ... The fact is, I wanna focus on jobs, the economy ... that nations are laughing at us and taking our money and taking our jobs and ripping us off."

But anti-racism activist Tim Wise said Trump's tactic is the latest move in an old game.

"This is part of a long-standing, white conservative narrative that people of color are getting things they don't deserve because of affirmative action or racial handouts," Wise told Lemon after Trump's interview. "So either Donald Trump is either the most uninformed individual in the western world because he doesn't know how his comments fit that narrative; or he knows full well what he's doing and he is deliberately pushing these buttons of racial resentment."

David Buck, of Buck Davis and Company, was more sympathetic to Trump.

"When a white man with privilege questions a black man's intelligence it sounds very racist and sounds very stereotypical," Buck said. "He probably is a wonderful man. He's a very smart man. But it's a prime example of how a wonderful, smart man could make a mistake."

@highlight

Trump insisted he is "the least racist" when questioned by CNN's Don Lemon

@highlight

He was responding to allegations that racism motivated his questions about Obama's degree, birth certificate

@highlight

African-American academic told CBS program that Trump used "racism by inference"(CNN) -- Comedian Joan Rivers died in a New York hospital Thursday afternoon, a week after suffering cardiac arrest during a medical procedure, her daughter said.

"She passed peacefully at 1:17 p.m. surrounded by family and close friends," Melissa Rivers said in a written statement.

The funeral for Rivers will be at Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan on Sunday, according to temple spokeswoman Elizabeth Fezrine. Details, including the time and if the public will be allowed to attend, are not yet known, she said.

Joan Rivers: A pointed, pioneering comedian

Rivers, 81, had been on life support at Manhattan's Mount Sinai hospital, where she was taken after she stopped breathing at the Yorkville Endoscopy clinic last Thursday.

Rivers was undergoing an apparently minor elective procedure at the clinic when she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest, according to the New York Fire Department.

Paramedics took her by ambulance to Mount Sinai Hospital, about a mile from the clinic, where she was initially listed in critical condition.

The outpatient clinic is now being investigated by the New York State Department of Health, spokesman James O'Hara said.

Joan Rivers: In her own words

Her death also has triggered an investigation by the New York medical examiner's office, its spokeswoman, Julie Bolcer, told CNN. "The cause and manner of death will be announced at some point," she said.

The Rivers family made very little information about her medical condition public, finally confirming Tuesday that she was on life support.

"My son and I would like to thank the doctors, nurses, and staff of Mount Sinai Hospital for the amazing care they provided for my mother," her daughter said. "Cooper and I have found ourselves humbled by the outpouring of love, support, and prayers we have received from around the world. They have been heard and appreciated.'

Melissa Rivers and her son Cooper have spent the past week by Rivers' hospital bedside, rushing there last Thursday when they learned of her illness.

'My mother's greatest joy in life was to make people laugh," Melissa Rivers said. "Although that is difficult to do right now, I know her final wish would be that we return to laughing soon."

Share your memories

The clinic has not responded to repeated calls from CNN about the state's investigation.

Yorkville Endoscopy's website says it is an "ambulatory surgical center" that has been "approved by the Department of Health." The description of its accreditations is blank.

"Yorkville Endoscopy is a state of the art facility, staffed by highly experienced endoscopists whose mission is to provide safe and compassionate care to patients and their families," the website says.

Tributes from Joan's friends

Tributes to Rivers and her long career included one from former first lady Nancy Reagan, whose close circle of friends included Rivers.

"Joan Rivers was not only a dear friend, but one of the kindest and funniest people I ever knew," Reagan said. "I doubt there's anyone who hasn't laughed at her or with her until they cried. Today our tears are those of sadness. I know I join millions in saying, 'Thanks for the good times Joan, we will truly miss you.' My love and deepest sympathy go to Melissa and Cooper."

Former CNN host Larry King knew Rivers for 45 years. "She knew no boundaries," King said. "Everything was funny to her. You couldn't really object because she took no prisoners."

Hollywood mourns a friend

Donald Trump, who chose her as the winner on a season of "Celebrity Apprentice," said Rivers "was stronger at the end than she was at the beginning. She had unbelievable stamina."

Ryan Seacrest, who worked with her on E! shows, called Rivers "a trailblazer in so many ways."

Liza Minnelli said Rivers was "my dear friend."

"I will miss her but I will always remember the laughter and friendship she brought into my life," Minnelli said.

Opinion: Joan Rivers gave misfit girls permission to dream

E! and NBCUniversal, producers of Rivers' TV show "Fashion Police," sent condolences to her family on "this incredibly sad day."

"For decades Joan has made people laugh, shattered glass ceilings and revolutionized comedy," the studio said.

"She was unapologetic and fiercely dedicated to entertaining all of us and has left an indelible mark on the people that worked with her and on her legions of fans.  She's been a much beloved member of the E! family for over 20 years and the world is less funny without her in it.  Today our hearts are heavy knowing Joan will not be bounding through the doors."

People we've lost in 2014

See more about the people of comedy at CNN Comedy.

CNN's Marisa Marcellino, Susan Candiotti and Joan Yeam contributed to this report.

@highlight

New York medical examiner's office will investigate Rivers' death

@highlight

Joan Rivers' funeral will be at Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan on Sunday

@highlight

She was undergoing a procedure at clinic, she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest

@highlight

Rivers, 81, had been on life support at Manhattan's Mount Sinai hospital(CNN)  -- American billionaire tycoon Donald Trump could never be accused of underselling himself and his myriad of business projects so it came as no surprise when he said wanted to build the "world's best golf course" in Scotland.

Trump is visiting the site at Menie, just north of Aberdeen, where he has been given permission to start the ambitious development, and CNN's Living Golf has been granted exclusive access.

Love him our loath him, Trump is certainly a man who courts strong opinions and now you can get the chance to put your questions about this project and other golf-related matters.

It's a simple process, just add your question to the bottom of this page.

You may want to ask him about his love of the sport, he describes himself as an "avid golfer" and on why he believes his signature course, one of two planned for the project, can one day host the British Open.

The plans have also met with considerable local opposition and it needed a decision by the Scottish Government to give it the go-ahead, so does Trump believe he can eventually win over residents and allay the fears of environmentalists who want to preserve nearby ancient sand dunes at the seaside location ?

Bullish Trump presses ahead with Scottish course

Trump's golf course portfolio currently boasts 10 courses, 11 if his Aberdeen project comes to fruition.

But across the world, other similar developments have run into trouble due to the worldwide recession and the move away from traditional golf course membership.

In these times of financial uncertainty, are they good investments and will all flourish ?

Trump, who is a regular competitor in prestigious Pro-Am tournaments on the PGA Tour, has rubbed shoulders with the golfing elite, so who in his opinion is the best player in the world at the moment ?

The 63-year-old has also been a tournament host to a top event on the LPGA circuit.

Does he believe the women's golf circuit will continue to flourish after the retirement of Annika Sorenstam and more recently Lorena Ochoa ?

And what really makes him tick and does he still have the same hunger to succeed as when he started out in business over 40 years ago ?

CNN's question and answer session with Trump will take place on Thursday May 27.

We will do our best to put as many of your questions as possible to him and publish his replies.

@highlight

You get the chance to quiz American business tycoon Donald Trump

@highlight

Trump is hoping to build the 'world's best golf course' in Scotland

@highlight

CNN interviews Trump on Thursday May 27 -- just add your question belowNew York (CNN) -- Donald Trump is seeking $400,000 in damages from a Brooklyn man over four websites that use the real estate mogul's name and brand.

Attorneys representing Trump filed a countersuit against J. Taikwok Yung, 33, at the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn on Thursday, seeking damages for "federal cybersquatting."

That's defined by the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act as "the registration as domain names of well-known trademarks by nontrademark holders who then try to sell the names back to the trademark owners."

Trump "has spent his career establishing his famous name and brand and is not going to sit by idly and allow a pathetic squatter like Mr. Yung to infringe on his well-established rights." Alexis Robinson, intellectual property counsel for the Trump Organization, wrote in an e-mail to CNN.

Yung, a self-described "domainer," acquired four Trump-related domain names, including trumpmumbai.com and trumpindia.com, in 2007, the year the Trump organization announced plans to build Trump-branded hotels and condominiums in Mumbai and Bangalore, India.

In 2011, Yung filed a complaint seeking to keep the domain names, citing fair use and First Amendment rights, after actions filed by the Trump Organization demanded he hand the websites over to Trump.

Yung used the websites to provide commentary, often disparaging, about Trump and his television shows "The Apprentice" and "The Celebrity Apprentice." A disclaimer appeared on the main page of the websites stating that the material posted had not been approved by the Trump Organization.

All four websites were taken down Saturday.

Yung describes himself as a former U.S. Marine and said he hoped to educate and interest other Marines about "the opportunities available on the Internet" and to inform them "against corporate evils that attempt to harvest their sacrifices and financial security in the name of corporate, Wall Street, and real estate profit," the 2011 complaint said.

Yung maintained that he never contacted the Trump Organization about selling the domain names for profit, he wrote in the complaint.

He also wrote specifically about Trump, criticizing Trump and his legal undertakings.

"Donald Trump is known worldwide to butcher the legal system with frivolous complaints as a vehicle to harass people," Yung wrote in the complaint.

Yung has been representing himself. He did not respond to CNN's requests for comment.

"Yung is as brazen and unrepentant a cybersquatter as one might find," wrote Trump's attorneys in a memorandum filed with the court Thursday.

"By his own admission, Yung seeks to acquire 'interesting and high-value domain names and park them initially with domain parking service providers and/or build the website, if feasible, with interesting content,'" the memorandum stated.

The countersuit filed Thursday seeks the maximum damages allowable -- $100,000 for each of the four Trump-related domain names.

Yung also holds nearly 200 other domain names, including barclayscapitallehman.com, goldmansachsgroup.com, milanvogue.com and hulufriend.com.

In 2009, Yung acquired the domains bofaml.com and mlbofa.com on the same day that Bank of America Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. announced their merger, resulting in similar legal action.

CNN's Cameron Tankersley and Forrest Brown contributed to this report.

@highlight

Donald Trump files countersuit seeking $400,000 from J. Taikwok Yung of Brooklyn

@highlight

Yung filed a complaint in 2011 seeking to keep four Trump-related domain names

@highlight

Memorandum filed on Thursday calls Yung a "brazen" and "unrepentant" cybersquatter

@highlight

Law prohibits registering well-known trademarks with intent to profit from rightful owners(CNN) -- For much of the next 10 days, the center of the baseball universe will not be Boston or L.A. but Kansas City, where the scrappy, longshot Royals will be playing in the World Series for the first time in 29 years.

That's right, doubters: Kansas City. KCMO! Part Cowtown, part "Paris of the Plains," to cite just two of its nicknames.

To snooty coastal Americans, it's a flyover city, an indistinct heartland burg famous for ... well, nothing. But take a closer look and its humble Midwestern charms come into focus.

Like a yoga master, KC sits perfectly centered in America's midsection, surrounded on all sides by subtle prairie beauty. It straddles the Missouri River, and not one, but two states. Even its people are decent -- if New York is Donald Trump, Kansas City is Walter Cronkite, the trusted newsman who lived in the Missouri city as a boy and later started his journalism career there.

Here are just some of the reasons Kansas City is already a winner.

1. From last to first

Everyone loves an underdog, and KC is a big one. For the past three decades, while baseball's elite (Yankees, Cardinals, Red Sox) were racking up championships, the Royals toiled in the murky depths of the American League cellar. Over one horrific span of 18 years, they had one winning season. Each miserable spring, Royals' fans' hopes were dashed before the last snowfall melted.

5 reasons to love the Kansas City Royals

But now, despite a roster of no-name players -- most Americans wouldn't know Lorenzo Cain from Lorenzo Lamas -- the Royals are good. Really good. They staged a wild comeback to top the A's, swept the star-studded Angels and have now won a record eight playoff games in a row. Derek Jeter who?

Another view: 7 reasons why San Francisco's a winner

2. Three coins in the fountain(s)

Sure, we hear Rome is lovely. But folks in Kansas City will happily tell you they have more fountains, for one thing. Inspired by the grand cities of Europe, planners in the late 1800s filled Kansas City with parks, boulevards and public squares teeming with decorative water displays -- more than 200 in all. One of the first fountains even had basins for horses and dogs to drink from -- how cute is that?

Visitors to KC will find cascading fountains, waterspout fountains and fountains punctuated with statues. Even Kauffman Stadium, where the Royals play, has a fountain display beyond its right-field wall. Exuberant fans have been known to jump in them, which will get you thrown out of the ballpark. This year, it's hard to blame them.

3. Royals, meet 'Royals'

Yes, Lorde's smash hit "Royals" refers mostly to historical monarchs. But there's a surprising Kansas City tie, too. The young singer has said the tune's lyrics were also inspired by a 1976 National Geographic photo she saw of young Royals star George Brett signing baseballs.

"Baby I'll rule, I'll rule, I'll rule, I'll rule," she sings in the song. "Let me live that fantasy."

Yes, please, agree hopeful KC fans.

4. For the love of meat

This city knows its meat and more. With joints like Jack Stack and Oklahoma Joe's (an Anthony Bourdain favorite), KC's barbecue can go head-to-head with any of its Southern brethren and come out on top. (Arthur Bryant's is the classic must-mention: You decide if it's better than Bourdain's pick.) After all, it's home to the Kansas City Barbeque Society, the governing body of the competitive barbecue circuit. (Note to barbecue novices: Different spots spell the word differently.)

5. Polite people

People in Kansas City are nice. Heck, Walt Disney grew up there. And witness that likeable actor and KC native Paul Rudd, inviting fans back to his mom's for a celebratory kegger after Wednesday night's pennant win. He almost seemed to mean it.

Even the KC cops seem like polite, reasonable fellows. After the ALCS-clinching win they tweeted, "We trust you'll channel your 29 years of pent-up excitement into a safe and classy celebration, #KC! See you at the World Series!"

6. All that jazz

New Orleans gets more music hype, but Kansas City was a hotbed of hard-swinging jazz in the early half of the 20th century. Legends like Count Basie, Coleman Hawkins, Charlie Parker and Lester Young all jammed frequently in clubs such as the Hi Hat and the Hey Hey, where players traded competitive solos deep into the night.

Robert Altman celebrated this scene in "Kansas City," his 1996 crime drama set against a backdrop of 1930s jazz, and the American Jazz Museum is located in -- you guessed it -- KC.

7. World's tallest water slide

Want an acrophobic thrill? Climb 264 steps and then plunge down the world's tallest water slide at Schlitterbahn Waterpark in Kansas City, Kansas. The Guinness World Records-certified water slide, called VerrÃ¼ckt, is 168 feet 7 inches tall -- a longer drop than Niagara Falls. Even the steps, with their 25 turns, made Travel + Leisure's list of the world's scariest staircases.

@highlight

The Royals are just one of many cool things about Kansas City

@highlight

City's diverse nicknames include Cowtown and "Paris of the Plains"

@highlight

KC is famous for its barbecue, legacy of jazz and its many fountains(CNN) -- It's happened again. Another actress apparently forgot she wasn't wearing any underwear when exiting her limo in front of throngs of paparazzi. The result: "wardrobe malfunction." Followed, of course, by a ton of free publicity for the actress and her new film.

We're talking about Anne Hathaway. At Monday night's New York premiere of "Les Misérables," the 30-year-old star got out of her vehicle in a way that flashed to the paparazzi "the Full Hathaway." And next thing you know, she's making the headlines.

C'mon, let's be honest: Are these "malfunctions" really accidents or just calculated ploys by celebrities to garner attention? Are we being played for idiots, or do celebrities suddenly fall out of their clothes more often than the rest of us?

In the case of Hathaway, it seems that the incident was probably a mistake. She told the press that she was "devastated" by the mishap. Certainly, she has no history of these types of antics. And she is well-respected in Hollywood. In fact, on Thursday, she received a Golden Globe nomination for her performance in "Les Misérables."

Although you would think that since Hathaway was exiting her car sans underwear, she would do so more carefully than a cowboy climbing off a horse.

Especially since she was being dropped off on the red carpet where the paparazzi were lined up like piranhas awaiting a piece of meat. They live for stuff like this.

There's no doubt that being a celebrity is challenging. Celebrities have to constantly stay in the limelight. If they're out of sight, they're out of work.

This is true for even those who have been very successful. Just this week, Jessica Biel -- a popular actress who recently married Justin Timberlake -- complained about losing out on several movie roles she desperately wanted, including the part in "Les Misérables" that went to Hathaway.

The answer for some celebs is simple: Do whatever it takes to stay in the public eye. "Any press is good press" is the adage they live by. You don't have to look far for examples of this philosophy. Lindsay Lohan, Kim Kardashian, Charlie Sheen, Snooki, Paris Hilton, along with their wardrobe malfunctions, drunken tirades, "accidentally" leaked sex tapes, etc.

Then there are celebs like Lady Gaga and Rihanna who wear outfits that appear to be intentionally designed wardrobe malfunctions, from see-through blouses to bathing suit tops slightly bigger than a 50-cent piece. They do this all in front of paparazzi all too happy to accommodate their desire for attention.

The queen of manipulating the press is Madonna. There are no "malfunctions" with Madonna; it's all by design. This summer, during her concert in Istanbul, she flashed the audience her right breast. A month later during her Paris show, she flashed the audience her left breast. Madonna's strategy is truly impressive: Her breasts yielded two different stories, one for each breast.

Believe it not, there are celebrities that have not resorted to these tricks to stay relevant. They are able to remain famous and work continually without such extracurricular activities.

We have yet to hear about Meryl Streep flashing her breasts on the Letterman show. Or George Clooney inadvertently having a part of his anatomy fall out of his pants. We haven't even seen pictures of people like Ben Affleck or Matt Damon with their zippers accidentally undone.

As long as celebrities feel the pressure to remain famous, there will be wardrobe "malfunctions." But calling them accidents in many cases is just laughable. They are simply more creative press releases.

It could always be worse. One day you could pick up the newspaper and discover Donald Trump has had a wardrobe malfunction revealing to us all: "The Full Donald." The thought of that makes me appreciate Madonna's breasts -- both her left and her right one -- that much more.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Anne Hathaway had a "wardrobe malfunction" at a premiere of "Les Misérables"

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Are we being played for idiots that these incidents are accidents?

@highlight

He says as long as stars feel the pressure to remain famous, they'll court attention

@highlight

Obeidallah: But there are some who don't resort to these tricks to stay relevantWashington (CNN) -- Wolf Blitzer and Donald Trump's heated showdown this week over claims of a conspiracy to conceal President Barack Obama's true birthplace was, at its core, an argument about lying.

Trump and other "birthers" believe the president, mainstream media outlets, the courts and the state of Hawaii are all lying, conspiring in a cover-up that began with Obama's birth announcement in a Honolulu newspaper in 1961.

Those who maintain the president was born in Hawaii -- and has produced an authentic birth certificate to prove it -- believe Trump and the other side are willfully ignoring the facts in front of them and spreading lies for political gain.

Despite a frustrated GOP, anti-Obama 'birthers' still persist

"It's very complicated, the way we process information," said Ron Riggio, an organizational psychology professor at Claremont McKenna College speaking broadly about the nature of lying. "It's the politics of audacity. The more outrageous and audacious the lie is, the more people say 'that's got to be true because why would someone make something like that up?'"

While many politicians are truthful, honest public servants, too many politicians and their surrogates often lie, and voters often let them get away with it, Riggio contends. In the world of politics, lies are that relative no one really likes but everyone reluctantly invites to Thanksgiving dinner.

From Richard Nixon -- "I'm not a crook" -- to Bill Clinton -- "I did not have sexual relations with that woman, Miss Lewinsky" -- to Marion Barry -- "It's all made up... I don't know what happened" -- to John Edwards -- "The story is false... It's completely untrue, ridiculous" -- American politicians have had a history of political deception, or at least stretching the truth.

Edwards not guilty on one count; mistrial on other charges

In 2007, Edwards, who at the time was a leading candidate for president, lied about his mistress and baby when the National Enquirer caught him at the Beverly Hilton Hotel visiting the child. The jury in his conspiracy and illegal campaign contributions trial Thursday found Edwards not guilty on one of six counts. The judge declared a mistrial on the other five counts.

And last year, disgraced congressman Anthony Weiner looked CNN's Wolf Blitzer in the eye and lied when confronted with evidence of illicit Twitter photos. He later admitted the deception and resigned from office.

Birther satire: Prove Mitt's not a unicorn

"From a leadership perspective, so often the lies politicians are involved in are part of leaving an impression about information," Riggio said. "So much of it is the little white lies that are part of the social fabric. But when it crosses the line that the public truly believes is important, then it becomes a big problem."

Rep. Mike Coffman, R-Colorado, found himself straddling the line between deception, confusion and evasion after reports leaked that he questioned the president's citizenship at a recent fundraiser.

"I don't know whether Barack Obama was born in the United States of America. I don't know that," Coffman reportedly said. "But I do know this, that in his heart, he's not an American. He's just not an American."

Why does Mitt Romney continue to put up with Trump?

The ensuing media storm over Coffman's comments forced the congressman to backpedal and issue a statement that he does believe Obama is an American citizen but that the president doesn't share the lawmaker's belief in "American exceptionalism."

But Coffman's gaffe seems to fall more along the lines of what some behavioral experts call a dodge or an evade.

"Most dodgers, they're not lying. They just create a false impression," said Michael Norton, an associate business professor at the Harvard Business School who studies how and why people lie. "Occasionally politicians get caught in a lie, but it's quite rare. If they are doing their jobs they don't lie, they just evade."

The Pulitzer Prize-winning PolitiFact website has made its mark by grading the shades of accuracy in politicians' statements on the "Truth-O-Meter."

"I think voters are well aware that politicians stretch the truth -- sometimes to the breaking point," said Bill Adair, editor of PolitiFact and Washington bureau chief of the Tampa Bay Times. "And I think voters are also savvy enough to realize there are shades of gray that turn a seemingly accurate statement into a half truth."

However, unlike the days when webs of political deception were tougher to untangle, savvy voters now have more tools on hand.

"What's different today is that there is so much information available to help people make sense of the political discourse and discern the difference between an exaggeration and a pants-on-fire lie," Adair said.

When Gilberto Hinojosa, who was seeking the Texas Democratic Party chairmanship, declared "a large majority of the Republican Party believes that (Obama) is a Muslim and was born in a foreign country, was not born in the United States," at the Central Texas Democratic Forum last month, the would-be chairman rated a "false" on the Truth-O-Meter.

Similarly, most claims about the president's birthplace as Kenya and the falsity of his Hawaiian birth certificate rate a flaming "Pants on Fire" on the Truth-O-Meter.

Not that any of those ratings will convince Trump, those who agree with him or those who believe the president was born in America. And it doesn't matter how much or how hard either side defends their position, Norton said.

"We're much more likely to notice evasive behavior with politicians we already disagree with," Norton said. "But we forget people in our party are doing the same thing."

@highlight

At the heart of the "birther" controversy is an argument about political lies

@highlight

Psychologists say politicians stretching the truth is "part of the social fabric"

@highlight

Richard Nixon, Bill Clinton and John Edwards have all been caught up in political deception(CNN)With a little bit of help from Donald Trump, Rory McIlroy was re-united with the golf club he famously threw into the lake at Doral -- but probably wished the golf-loving tycoon had not bothered.

Never one to miss a media opportunity, Trump, the owner of the Blue Monster course in Florida, got a scuba diver to retrieve the 3-iron club which world No. 1 McIlroy had thought he had seen the last of during Friday's second round at the WGC-Cadillac Championship.

The 68-year-old American entrepreneur presented it to McIlroy before his final round Sunday, telling him that it was unlucky to continue playing with 13 clubs as against the usual 14 allowed under golf's rules.

"He's never one to miss an opportunity," McIlroy told the official PGA Tour website after his round. "It was fine. It was good fun."

Not that opportunity knocked for McIlroy when he chose the 3-iron to play his third shot to the 18th and final hole of the tournament and promptly found the water again.

The Northern Irishman feigned to repeat his earlier antics, before placing it back in the bag.

His mistake led to a double bogey six and left him tied for ninth at one-under-par, eight shots behind winner Dustin Johnson.

McIlroy had promised to return the club to Trump after the round and was as good as his word.

"We're thinking about auctioning it for charity or doing a trophy case for Doral, putting it on a beautiful mount," Trump said.

Johnson is looking set to be one of McIlroy's main rivals in the first major of the season, the U.S. Masters at Augusta, next month and his victory completed a triumphant comeback to the PGA Tour.

The 30-year-old American took a six-month break from the Tour last July to cope with "personal problems" and returned earlier this year.

Johnson finished with a three-under 69 in testing conditions to leave him one ahead of long-time leader JB Holmes and two clear of Bubba Watson, the reigning Masters champion.

Johnson celebrated on the 18th with his fiancee Paulina Gretzky, the daughter of ice hockey legend Wayne, and their newly-born son.

@highlight

Rory McIlroy re-united with the 3-iron he threw into lake at Doral

@highlight

Presented with the club by owner Donald Trump

@highlight

Repeats mistake with same club on final hole of WGC-Cadillac Championship

@highlight

Dustin Johnson wins tournament after six-month absence from PGA Tour(CNN) -- He had the firm backing of world No. 1 Rory McIlroy as well as Europe's Ryder Cup talisman Ian Poulter, and on Tuesday night it was made official -- Paul McGinley will captain the continent against the United States in 2014.

Despite a late bid from successful 2010 captain Colin Montgomerie, who was keen to do the job on home soil in Scotland, player power won out as the Irishman was confirmed at a press conference in Abu Dhabi.

The 46-year-old played in three winning Ryder Cup teams and holed the clinching putt for Europe during the 2002 clash at The Belfry, in England.

McGinley was trumpeted for the role by McIlroy several times on Monday, and also by English duo Poulter -- one of Europe's heroes who inspired their dramatic comeback in Chicago last year -- and former world No.1 Luke Donald.

McIlroy said Montgomerie -- an eight-time European Order of Merit winner -- had "nothing to gain" by reprising his role and McGinley told reporters he was proud to be the first ever Irish Ryder Cup captain.

He said: "I'm obviously absolutely thrilled and delighted to lead the team with the strongest, in-depth European Tour in history; to be leading the cream of the crop is a huge honor.

"I knew I had the strong backing of the players. I thought the more I would say the more my chances would lessen. I watched with interest in the last few weeks as my chances went up and down like a yo-yo.

"To be honest it is quite a humbling experience to be sitting in this seat. It's a week I'm really looking forward to. I've been there many times as a player and as a vice captain but I'm looking forward to being a captain."

Europe has won five of the last six installments of the biannual team competition, including a stunning comeback victory at the last meeting in Chicago last year, when McGinley was vice captain to Jose Maria Olazabal.

Despite taking a big 10-6 lead into the final day singles matches, the U.S were stunned by a European comeback as the visitors won 14Â½ to 13Â½ in what has become known as 'the Miracle of Medinah.'

McIlroy was one of the European stars, alongside Poulter, and McGinley said the backing he got from the world's best player was a big factor in him getting the job.

"Its humbling when the new star of world golf comes out in your favor," he said. "That means a lot to me.

"There's a couple of good things that have happened for me in terms of getting this role. One of those is Rory and Graeme McDowell (2010 U.S. Open champion) played in the 2009 Seve Trophy, which was my first captaincy.

"I had the opportunity of captaining him, and Rory and Graeme were huge for me that week. I was fortunate I had that situation where Rory played underneath me and that's why he spoke with such authority on the subject."

After their painful defeat in Chicago the U.S. turned to one of the game's greatest ever players, Tom Watson, who was the last man to captain a winning United States team on European soil back in 1993.

McGinley said he was honored to be squaring up against the eight-time major winner.

He added: "I'm relishing the thought of taking on one of my great heroes in Tom Watson. Not only is he a wonderful person, he's a great ambassador for the game of golf and has been for a long time. It's going to be a real thrill for me."

Players' Committee chairman Thomas Bjorn said they had listened to the voices of their members and that it became very clear early on in the meeting that McGinley was their preferred choice.

European Tour chief exec George O'Grady added: "It's a wonderful achievement for Paul. It was a unanimous decision of the players' committee and was testimony to the democracy of the process."

@highlight

Paul McGinley named European Ryder Cup captain for 2014 clash in Scotland

@highlight

Players had backed Irishman instead of 2010 captain Colin Montgomerie

@highlight

Rory McIlroy, Ian Poulter and Luke Donald all threw weight behind McGinley

@highlight

McGinley was vice captain to Jose Maria Olazabal during Europe's win in 2012Edinburgh (CNN) -- In the 20th century, getting your child a toy car meant a trip to a shopping mall. In the 21st century, it can mean going to your computer, downloading a file and creating the toy on your 3-D printer.

Only that is not quite revolutionary enough for Massimo Banzi, who spoke at the TED Global conference in Edinburgh, Scotland, in late June. As Banzi pointed out, the 3-D printer a friend of his used to build a toy car was itself an open-source device -- one that could be produced by anyone from freely available plans.

The open-source maker movement offers an immense range of possibilities for creativity -- and in some ways, Banzi has been at the center of it. He is part of a team of five people behind "Arduino," a pocket-sized open-source circuit board with a microprocessor that has been used as the brains of thousands of custom devices.

Watch Massimo Banzi's TED Talk

For someone who needed to make sure his sick cat got special food not available to his healthy cat, an Arduino motherboard controlled a device, using a converted CD player, that enabled and restricted access to a bowl.

For a 14-year-old inventor in Chile, Arduino was a building block in an earthquake monitoring system, connected to a Twitter feed, that provides seismic information; Banzi noted it was completed at least a year ahead of a planned government project with a similar aim.

For Matt Richardson, who had grown tired of hearing about overexposed celebrities, Arduino was a key component of a product called "The Enough Already," a system that mutes your television's volume whenever the names Charlie Sheen, Donald Trump, Sarah Palin and Kim Kardashian are mentioned.

Arduino played a similar role for the plant monitoring device that tweets "Water me please," the fetal monitoring device that tweets when the soon-to-be baby kicks inside the womb, the mini copter device that can transport items from one village in Africa to another, the network of custom-built radiation detectors deployed by concerned citizens in Japan after the Fukushima disaster, and the device developed at New York University that enables a disabled boy to play a baseball video game.

"You don't need anybody's permission to create something great, says Banzi. "If you have an idea, you just go and you make it."

TED.com: Boaz Almog levitates a superconductor

The open nature of Banzi's system fit well with the theme of the TED Global conference: "Radical openness." TED is a nonprofit organization dedicated to "Ideas worth spreading." It holds conferences with high prices -- $6,000 to attend the one in Edinburgh -- but it distributes selected talks free online. Its more than 1,000 talks at www.TED.com have been viewed 800 million times, the organization says. (CNN has a partnership with TED in which it publishes selected talks with additional content.)

Over five days, more than 70 speakers and performers explored the varieties of openness and its uses in science, politics, technology, government and the arts.

Don Tapscott, a Canadian consultant and author focused on technology and society, began the conference with a talk suggesting that "the arc of history is a positive one and it's toward openness," though he warned that transparency has its risks: If you're going to be naked, "fitness is no longer optional."

Tapscott: Four principles for the open world

Filmmaker and former Current TV host Jason Silva, who is adept at blending together abstract cultural and philosophical themes, debuted a warp-speed video on the theme of radical openness, ending with a "Wow" that made his point that "awe makes things new again."

NATO Supreme Commander James Stavridis called for open-source security, arguing that in the 21st century, the West isn't going to achieve stability only through the barrel of a gun or by building walls. He stressed the value of reaching out to people through social networks and providing services such as teaching Afghan soldiers to read.

Ellen Jorgensen, who created a community "biolab" in New York, examined how DIY techniques can open up the world of biology, enabling us to understand ourselves, and our world, better than ever. Labs run by "biohackers" can identify invasive species, check your food, analyze your ancestry or pinpoint the dog that's fouling your lawn.

Marc Goodman, a law enforcement expert, explored the downside of radical openness, describing how the terrorists in the Mumbai massacre used search engines and other technology to identify and hunt down victims. Criminals can turn the tools of transparency and technology against us, he warned: "Control the code, control the world."

Beth Noveck, former deputy chief technology officer in the Obama administration, called for an open-source approach to rethinking government, making its operating system as accessible to everyone as the code that powers the Arduino device. And, closing the conference, theorist and teacher Clay Shirky pointed to the promise of open-source approaches to social and political issues.

Shirky on TED.com: How cognitive surplus will change the world

Nearly 2 million people around the world use a site called Github to collaborate on software without being part of a formal coordinating structure. Some are now exploring ways to apply the open-source process outside the world of programming, Shirky said.

Once you open up the process, it's not easy to shut it down.

Shirky mentioned the case of the 9-year-old Scottish girl whose blog describing the lunches being served at her school drew wide attention, prompting a decision by local authorities to order her to stop.

What made officials think they could get away with shutting down her blog? Shirky said: "All of human history up to now."

In the end, the officials relented in the face of widespread criticism and allowed the blog to continue -- a sign that openness is now not just a goal, but a feature of the world we live in.

@highlight

Open-source movement offers infinite opportunity for invention

@highlight

Massimo Banzi's Arduino motherboards control thousands of DIY devices

@highlight

Banzi says if you have an idea for something, you can create it

@highlight

He spoke at TED Global 2012 conference on "radical openness"(CNN) -- It was Donald Trump's long-held dream. To build the best links golf course in the world in Scotland, as a tribute to his late mother who was born in the country.

But it is fast turning into a nightmare for the billionaire business tycoon.

After initial opposition to the project from environmental groups, Trump now has a green problem of his own, in the shape of an offshore wind farm.

With the Trump International Golf Links ready for action from July, Trump has shelved plans for an adjoining hotel until a decision is made on the wind farm.

Blowing in the wind: Trump to ditch $1bn Scottish golf resort?

And he was in Scotland this week to accuse the government of luring him into his Â£1 bn project by telling him the offshore developemtn would never be built.

He told CNN he plans to sue, unless the development is abandoned.

"If an administration that's previous gives a statement, and if you rely on that statement, and then you build and spend tens of millions of pounds in this case, building this great course -- if you do that and rely on certain statements, and the next administration say 'Well, we're not going to (do that)', then I think that is unfair..

"I don't think that is good business. I think people looking to invest in Scotland will look at this and say 'Well, we'll invest some place else.'

"I will sue if they try to advance it further, I will be suing Scotland."

Trump said he would never have begun his project on the east coast of Scotland if he thought the mooted wind farm was a possibility.

He says he received assurances from Alex Salmond at a dinner in New York back in 2007 that the offshore development, which is just a mile from his course, would not go ahead.

Trump told the committee that pursuing the construction of wind farms could, in his opinion, be the ruination of Scotland.

"The last thing I needed was to build a course in Scotland," he told CNN. "But the land was so incredible and in honor of my mother, who was born in Scotland, I thought it'd be a great idea.

"So I decided to do it and it came out even better than I thought."

Two groups of protestors gathered outside the Scottish parliament for Trump's visit -- those who support his opposition to wind farms, and those who claim his development has spoiled an area of outstanding natural beauty.

But advocates of Scotland's policy of embracing renewable energy projects insist the government should not be blown off course by entrepreneurs like Trump.

Niall Stuart, CEO of Scottish Renewables, insists the country's reputation for being at the forefront of the sustainable energy campaign must be maintained.

"Our government is absolutely committed to maximizing not just the environmental benefits of renewable energy but also the economic and employment benefits of renewable energy," he told CNN.

"Actually it's that political commitment to renewables that has put Scotland on the map internationally."

@highlight

Tycoon Donald Trump threatens to sue the Scottish government over wind farm plans

@highlight

Trump opposes plans to build wind farm near his new golf course in Aberdeenshire

@highlight

Billionaire claims Scotland's first minister told him wind farm would not go ahead

@highlight

Trump has faced criticism of his golf and hotel complex from environmental groupsLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Carrie Prejean's lawyer gave Miss California USA executive director Keith Lewis what he said was a final warning to retract statements made about the former beauty queen or face a defamation lawsuit.

The lawyer for former Miss California USA Carrie Prejean, says the ousted beauty queen's good name is "tarnished."

Prejean, stripped of the Miss California USA title last week, "suffered severe emotional distress" and her reputation was harmed by Lewis, Charles LiMandri said in a letter sent Thursday to Lewis' lawyer.

LiMandri's letter also accused Lewis, whom he referred to as a "gay activist," of setting Prejean up to be fired because of her statements opposing same-sex marriage.

When Prejean, 22, was dethroned, Lewis said it was for "contract violations," including missed public appearances.

He told CNN's Larry King last week that it wasn't one thing Prejean did, but "many, many, many things."

"She came to us and said I'm not interested in your input; I'll make my own decision what I'm going to do," Lewis said. "You know, when you have a contract, when you're working for someone, you have a responsibility to follow through on what that requirement is."

Lewis told King it was clear "she was not interested in upholding the title or the responsibilities."

"Carrie Prejean's good name has been tarnished by your client's false and defamatory accusations," the letter from her lawyer to Lewis' said.

"Please view this letter as a last opportunity for Mr. Lewis to retract the defamatory statements made against my client and to seek to restore her good name," LiMandri said. "If he does not comply, I will have no alternative but to recommend that Ms. Prejean proceed to do so through litigation."

In response to the letter, Lewis issued a statement that said: "Mr. LiMandri obviously has never watched 'The Apprentice' if he believes that Mr. Trump could be so easily fooled. Facts are facts, and we stand by them."

LiMandri denied any contract violations, saying it was a "complete and utter pretext" for her firing.

The list Lewis gave to reporters of Prejean's missed appearances was "an outright fraud," he said.

Prejean "did not refuse reasonable appearance requests" that could "be expected to promote and further the intended purposes of Miss California USA," he said.

The beauty queen expected to be asked to attend "Rotary conventions and avocado festivals," not events Lewis suggested, LiMandri said.

"She did not think it was appropriate for her to accept Mr. Lewis' invitation to attend a gay documentary in Hollywood promoting same-sex marriage," he said. "It was not my client's job, as Miss California, simply to help your client promote his personal or business interests as a Hollywood agent and producer, or gay activist."

He accused Lewis of trying to make commissions off Prejean's appearances.

"Your client was trying to wrongfully profit off of my client's participation as Miss California, in violation of her contract, by taking 20 percent of any appearance fee she would earn, such as at the Las Vegas jewelers convention she attended at his request," LiMandri's letter said.

LiMandri cited a statement he said Lewis made during a May 15 conference call that "clearly shows that your client was trying to 'set-up' our client for termination" by relaying an offer to appear semi-nude in Playboy. Three people who worked for a public relations agency representing Prejean at the time heard it, he said.

"All three of those people distinctly remember Keith Lewis talking about sending Ms. Prejean an offer to do a Playboy photo shoot 'so when they take her title away, she doesn't sue me,' " he said.

LiMandri said Lewis -- and former co-executive director Shanna Moakler -- were "bound and determined to get her fired, and they have now finally gotten their way."

Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump announced last month that Prejean could keep her title despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage.

Trump reversed himself last week.

"I told Carrie she needed to get back to work and honor her contract with the Miss California USA organization, and I gave her the opportunity to do so," Trump said. "Unfortunately, it just doesn't look like it is going to happen, and I offered Keith my full support in making this decision."

@highlight

NEW: Pagaent director responds, "Facts are facts, and we stand by them"

@highlight

Attorney Charles LiMandri pens ultimatum to Miss California USA director's lawyer

@highlight

Carrie Prejean's lawyer says dethronement caused "severe emotional distress"

@highlight

"Please view this letter as a last opportunity" to retract statements, LiMandri writesWashington (CNN)Just when you thought it was safe to go back on the Republican campaign trail, Sarah Palin and Donald Trump are back.

All it took to set Twitter abuzz at the first big GOP campaign bash at the weekend was for The Donald and the 2008 vice presidential nominee to clear their throats and muse, yet again, about presidential campaigns.

But the idea that they're both seriously searching their souls and considering a run for the White House doesn't pass the smell test.

Trump and Palin are now more at the reality show end of the political spectrum than serious contenders -- but they sure know how to get a headline.

They snatched more than their fair share of attention at Congressman Steve King's cattle call in Iowa on Saturday -- even as an impressive line-up of bona fide potential candidates tried to road test early 2016 messaging.

There are serious candidates out there who are almost certainly running for president -- including Chris Christie, Rick Perry, Ted Cruz, Rick Santorum, Carly Fiorina and Mike Huckabee, all of whom were at the Iowa event.

And there are those who just want some people to believe they might, just, might, run.

Given all the available evidence, Palin and Trump belong in the latter category.

Both are past masters at self publicity and appeared to view the massive media spotlight of the first big campaign event in Iowa as a great opportunity at the start of another campaign cycle.

Palin launched a bizarre, stream of consciousness rant against Hollywood the left, President Barack Obama and the strange social media palaver whipped up by pictures of her son Trig standing on his labrador.

Her performance was all the more odd since she had deliberately raised expectations that she might be mulling a return to top-level politics ahead of the speech.

She told ABC News that anyone like her with a "servant's heart" had no choice but to think about it.

Then, after bumping into reporters at a Des Moines hotel, Palin said "who wouldn't be interested?", according to The Washington Post.

So is Palin really considering a run for president?

SEE ALSO: Jeb's invisible man strategy

Her largely inconsequential speech offered easy ammunition for her political enemies, making for an ineffective start.

And there's no evidence that Palin is taking the serious moves needed of a candidate in an age when the price of entry for the presidential sweep stakes is millions of dollars. There's also no buzz that Palin has sounded out top party donors or wants to snap up big name consultants.

Though some of her attack lines hit their mark with the audience of conservative activists, Palin was a pale imitation of the rock star who burst onto the scene in 2008 showing raw and rare political talent.

And the notion of a Palin presidential campaign seems a lot more remote than when she teased a run, but ultimately decided against it, in the last presidential cycle.

Her performance on Saturday dismayed key figures in conservative media, including some who thought she was unfairly put to the sword by the press in 2008.

Conservative columnist Byron York wrote in his Washington Examiner column that the Republican Party has a Palin problem.

"If there is indeed nothing behind her 'seriously interested' talk — and it appears there is not — should she be included in events leading up to the 2016 caucuses?" York wrote.

Conservative blogger Erick Erickson meanwhile said Palin's speech was best "left uncommented on."

Democrats are jubilant. Democratic National Committee communications director Mo Elleithee put out a simple statement reading "Thank you." The pro-Clinton super PAC Ready for Hillary fired out a fundraising email on the back of Palin's comments.

SEE ALSO: Pro-Clinton group raises money off Palin speech

Trump meanwhile used the Freedom Summit to relaunch his own political sideshow, in mothballs since his 2012 presidential musings and his campaign to get Obama to publish his birth certificate.

But he touched raw nerves in the GOP, launching a fierce attack on potential establishment frontrunners Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney who skipped the event.

His broadsides seemed to fly in the face of efforts by party bosses to remove the circus atmosphere which marred the 2012 GOP presidential debates.

'Mitt had his chance," he said. "He should have won and he choked. You don't want to give a choker a second chance."

"We've had enough of the Bushes," Trump blasted.

There is a long tradition of long-shot candidates launching presidential runs without any expectation of victory.

While many hope lightning will strike -- comparative unknowns like Jimmy Carter and Barack Obama built campaigns in Iowa that ended at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue -- most know it won't.

But running for president in Iowa, even if you don't make it to the caucuses themselves can be a good career move. Former Gov. Tom Vilsack for instance parlayed a campaign that never got off the ground into a job as secretary of the Agriculture Department. Other candidates -- like Democratic gadfly Dennis Kucinich and libertarian Ron Paul -- have used presidential campaigns to build personal political brands.

Joe Biden got less than 1% of the votes in the Iowa caucuses in 2008 -- but ended up as a two-term vice president.

In each of those cases, the candidates offered more steak than sizzle; more policy than pizzazz.

And then there are those like Trump, who thrives on attention, and Palin, who needs to maintain a brand on the fringes of conservative media, for whom the oxygen of publicity as a new campaign grinds into gear seems too enticing to ignore.

@highlight

Sarah Palin and Donald Trump flirt with media with 2016 talk

@highlight

No sign of serious campaigns

@highlight

But candidates have an incentive to keep their names in the frame(CNN) -- A key provision of the health care reform law championed by President Barack Obama came under harsh criticism from the conservative majority of the Supreme Court on Tuesday.

The justices debated a hotly contested issue testing the limits of government-mandated contraception coverage, specifically involving for-profit corporations that object to it for religious reasons.

The justices appeared divided along ideological lines in a 90-minute oral argument, with the federal government offering a spirited defense of the Affordable Care Act.

"How does a corporation exercise religion?" asked Justice Sonia Sotomayor, summarizing perhaps the key constitutional question at hand.

"This is a religious question," said Justice Samuel Alito, suggesting the businesses have such a right. "You want us to provide a definitive secular answer."

Before the hearing began, hundreds of demonstrators representing both sides of the issue rallied in front of the courthouse on Capitol Hill.

The court is reviewing provisions of the Affordable Care Act requiring for-profit employers of a certain size to offer insurance benefits for birth control and other reproductive health services without a co-pay.

At issue is whether certain companies can refuse to do so on the sincere claim it would violate their owners' long-established personal beliefs.

Two separate appeals are being heard together.

The outcome was uncertain, but the court could cast preliminary votes later this week. A final written ruling is expected by late June.

5 things to know about Obamacare and contraceptives

The cases involve two appeals from Conestoga Wood Specialties. The companion legal challenge comes from Hobby Lobby, an Oklahoma-based arts and crafts retail giant. The Hahn family owns Conestoga and the Green family owns Hobby Lobby.

Both corporations emphasize their desire to operate in harmony with biblical principles while competing in a secular marketplace. That includes their leaders' publicly stated opposition to abortion.

The cases present a complex mix of legal, regulatory, and constitutional concerns-- over such hot-button issues as faith, abortion, corporate power, executive agency discretion, and congressional intent.

Political stakes

The political stakes are large, especially for the future effectiveness of Obamacare, which marks its fourth anniversary this week.

The botched rollout of HealthCare.gov, the federal site where consumers can sign up for insurance, has become another political flashpoint.

Republicans claim the law, approved by Congress without their support, is unworkable and are campaigning furiously against it in this year's midterm elections.

The church-state issue now in the spotlight involves three-pronged rules negotiated last year between the Obama administration and various outside groups.

Under the changes, churches and houses of worship are exempt from the contraception mandate.

Other nonprofit, religiously affiliated groups, such as church-run hospitals, parochial schools and charities like the Little Sisters of the Poor, must either offer coverage, or have a third-party insurer provide separate benefits without the employer's direct involvement.

Lawsuits in those cases are pending in several federal appeals courts.

For-profit businesses in spotlight

The Hobby Lobby and Conestoga claims are in yet another Obamacare category: for-profit corporations claiming a religion-based exemption.

These suits follow the high court's decision two years ago that narrowly upheld the key funding provision of the health care law, a blockbuster ruling affirming that most Americans would be required to purchase insurance or pay a financial penalty, the so-called individual mandate.

The constitutional debate shifts to the separate employer mandates and whether corporations themselves enjoy the same First Amendment rights as individuals.

Three federal appeals courts have struck down the contraception coverage rule, while two others have upheld it. That "circuit split" made the upcoming Supreme Court review almost certain.

A key issue for the bench will be interpreting a 1993 federal law known as the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, requiring the government to seek the "least burdensome" and narrowly tailored means for any law that interferes with religious convictions. Can companies, churches, and universities be included, or do the protections apply only to "persons?"

"Our family started Hobby Lobby built on our faith and together as a family," Barbara Green, Hobby Lobby co-owner, told CNN after the arguments. "We believe that Americans don't lose their religious freedom when they open a family business. We were encouraged by today's arguments. We are thankful that the Supreme Court took our case and we prayerfully await the justice's decision."

Vocal backing for mandate

In the arguments on Tuesday, Obama's two appointees to the high court offered the most vocal backing of the mandate.

"Congress has given a statutory entitlement and that entitlement is to women and includes contraceptive coverage," said Justice Elena Kagan. "And when the employer says, no, I don't want to give that, that woman is quite directly, quite tangibly harmed."

Sotomayor asked the lawyer for the companies: "Is your claim limited to sensitive materials like contraceptives or does it include items like blood transfusion, vaccines? For some religions, products made of pork? Is any claim under your theory that has a religious basis, could an employer preclude the use of those items as well?"

Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, arguing for the administration, said the case was really not about the government or the corporate officers: "The rights of the third party employees are at center stage here."

"In the entire history of this country, there is not a single case in which a for-profit corporation was granted an exemption" on religious liberty grounds, when that would harm the rights of others, he added.

Tough questions

Justice Anthony Kennedy -- who may prove the decisive vote -- posed tough questions on both sides.

"The government, through its healthcare plan -- under your view -- is allowing the employer to put the employee in a disadvantageous position, he said at one point to Paul Clement, representing the Greens and Hahns. "The employee may not agree with these religious beliefs of the employer. Do the religious beliefs just trump? Is that the way it works?"

Clement said there were other ways to ensure an employer did not have to violate her religious beliefs, while still giving workers the mandated coverage.

"Because you have a unique situation here, where their policy is about a government subsidy for a government-preferred health care item, and the question is who pays?" said Clement. "The government paying or a third-party insurer paying is a perfectly good least restrictive alternative."

Chief Justice John Roberts wondered whether government's interest was really "compelling" as required, when the administration had already granted so many coverage exemptions -- including to houses of worship, religious non-profits, small companies, and grandfathered health plans.

He suggested corporate rights extend into a wider range of areas, including allowing companies-- along with individuals-- to bring racial discrimination claims. "Does the government have a position on whether corporations have a race?" he asked Verrilli.

Kennedy later took issue with the government on another point.

"Under your view, a for-profit corporation could be forced in principle to pay for abortions," which is currently not allowed under federal law.

"No. I think, as you said, the law now is to the contrary," replied Verrilli, who said most women taking IUDs do not equate that with abortion.

"But your reasoning would permit that," said Kennedy, sharply. "You say profit corporations just don't have any standing to vindicate the religious rights of their shareholders and owners."

"Isn't that what we are talking about in terms of their religious beliefs?" added Roberts. "One of the religious beliefs is that they have to pay for these four methods of contraception that they (corporations) believe provide abortions."

Under the ACA, financial penalties of up to $100 per day per employee can be levied on firms that refuse to provide comprehensive health coverage. Hobby Lobby, which has about 13,000 workers, estimates the penalty could cost it $475 million a year.

Abortion rights groups urged the justices to again uphold a key tenet of Obamacare.

"What I think we saw today was the importance of having (three) women on the Supreme Court," said Cecile Richards, President, Planned Parenthood Action Fund. "What's at stake in this case is whether millions of women and their right to preventive care including birth control is trumped by a handful of CEOs who have their own personal opinions about birth control."

The cases are Sebelius v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc. (13-354); and Conestoga Wood Specialties Corp. v. Sebelius (13-356).

@highlight

Justices appear divided along ideological lines in oral argument

@highlight

Hobby Lobby, Conestoga Wood Specialties say they run their firms with Christian values

@highlight

Obamacare's contraception coverage requirements violate those values, they say

@highlight

Requirements apply to the corporations, not the individual owners, the government saysWashington (CNN) -- A new poll Tuesday showed voters are willing to give Mitt Romney a fresh look now that he is the certain Republican presidential nominee, and the former Massachusetts governor picked up public backing from the top GOP leaders in the House and Senate.

The good news came as Romney's campaign offered a mild rebuke to right-wing rocker Ted Nugent's for his latest inflammatory rhetoric against President Barack Obama, seeking a middle ground between condoning divisive language and alienating conservatives who like Nugent's firebrand politics.

Obama, meanwhile, unveiled a new plan to limit oil market speculation as a way to address high gas prices angering Americans as the campaign for the November election heats up.

The CNN/ORC International poll showed that Romney's popularity is starting to rebound now that the divisiveness of the Republican primaries appears to be all but over.

According to the survey, 44% of people questioned said they have a favorable view of Romney, up 10 points from February, while 43% said they have an unfavorable opinion, down 11 points, and 13% were unsure.

According to the poll, 53% of Americans plan to give Romney a second look when the primaries are officially over, with 45% saying they already know enough about Romney to decide whether he would be a good president.

The survey indicates Romney's popularity still lags well behind Obama's: 56% have a favorable view of the president, with 42% saying they see Obama in a negative light.

"The Republican Party's favorable rating has also rebounded now that the nomination fight is all but over, from 35% in March to 41%," said CNN Polling Director Keating Holland. "That still puts the GOP several points behind the Democratic party's 46% rating, but it is an indication that the wounds have started to heal from the primary season."

CNN Poll: Romney's favorable rating rebounds

Both House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said Tuesday they back Romney's nomination. The statements a few hours apart were intended to show growing Republican support for Romney despite mistrust among some conservatives over his moderate policies when he was Massachusetts governor.

"I will be proud to support Mitt Romney and do everything I can to help him win," Boehner told reporters after he met with House Republicans to discuss the November election.

Romney still needs several hundred delegates to formally secure the GOP nomination, but the withdrawal from the race last week by his main conservative challenger, Rick Santorum, left Romney's path unobstructed.

McConnell later told reporters he also is backing Romney, which is no surprise but represents a formal endorsement after the Kentucky senator previously said Romney would be the party's nominee and "an excellent candidate."

Nugent, another Romney supporter, raised eyebrows this weekend when he said at an NRA convention that if Obama wins re-election in November, "I will either be dead or in jail by this time next year."

He accused the government of "wiping its ass with the Constitution" and labeled members of the Obama administration, including the vice president, attorney general and secretary of state, "criminals."

"We need to ride into that battlefield and chop their heads off in November," Nugent said.

Responding to the comments by Nugent, who announced his support for Romney last month, campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul said: "Divisive language is offensive no matter what side of the political aisle it comes from."

"Mitt Romney believes everyone needs to be civil," Saul added.

Her reaction followed a call from Democratic National Committee Chair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida for Romney to denounce comments she called "despicable, deplorable and completely beyond the pale."

"Romney's surrogates should know better than to rally the troops with outrageous rhetoric that is unacceptable in our political debate," Wasserman Schultz said in a statement.

Obama said Tuesday that the new measures he announced to limit speculation in oil markets will make amends to consumers for congressional Republicans blocking an end to subsidies for oil corporations.

"A few weeks ago, Congress had the chance to stand up for families already paying an extra premium at the pump, but congressional Republicans voted to keep spending billions of Americans' hard-earned tax dollars on more unnecessary subsidies for big oil companies," Obama said in his announcement in the Rose Garden. "So here's a chance to make amends."

Senate Republicans three weeks ago blocked a Democratic measure championed by Obama to end tax breaks for the major oil companies, which he said are enjoying record profits. Four Democrats crossed party lines to vote against the bill, but even if it had passed the Senate, it was given little chance in the Republican-controlled House.

Obama's proposal would require traders to put up more of their own money for transactions. It also would ask for more funding for market enforcement and monitoring, and increase penalties for manipulating markets.

Obama and Republicans have drawn lines over oil prices since they started to rise to near-record levels earlier this year.

Republicans say Obama hasn't done enough to stem the rise and advocate opening up more areas for drilling and approving projects like the Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil from Canada to refineries in Texas. But analysts say such measures would have little effect on the current price of oil and gasoline.

Most Americans blame big oil for the spike in prices -- a recent CNN/ORC International poll showed that the majority blamed the oil companies while 24% blamed Obama and 21% blamed Republican policies.

CNN poll: Gender gap and likeability keep Obama over Romney

Obama's announcement came a day after one of the elements of his tax policy was blocked by Republicans in the Senate.

The so-called Buffett Rule -- named after billionaire Warren Buffett, who says the tax rate he pays should be no lower than that of his secretary -- failed to get the necessary 60 votes to go to the Senate floor. The measure would have raised the minimum tax rate to 30% for those making more than $1 million a year.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said that Obama, by pushing the Buffett Rule, shows that the incumbent is "out of ideas" on the economy.

Speaking to the Tax Day Tea Summit in Philadelphia on Monday night, Romney cited a calculation that the measure, which would have raised the minimum tax rate to 30% for those making between $1 million and $2 million, would have paid for "11 hours of government."

"This is not exactly a grand idea," Romney said. "This is a man who is out of ideas, he's out of excuses and in 2012 we're going to make sure he gets put out of office."

However, a CNN/ORC poll released Monday found that seven in 10 respondents said they favored the bill.

Romney's wife, Ann, was to be the guest of honor later Tuesday at a birthday celebration/fundraiser being held for her by Donald Trump's wife, Melania, at the couple's residence in Trump Tower in New York. Trump spokesman Michael Cohen said about 400 people were invited to the event, which was expected to bring in "well in excess" of $600,000.

Cohen said Trump will stop by the fundraiser to wish Ann Romney, who turned 63 on Monday, a happy birthday and he expects to host another fundraiser for the campaign at Trump Tower once Romney officially clinches the nomination.

First lady Michelle Obama will also be raising cash on Tuesday. She will speak at a Democratic National Committee event in Nashville, followed by two DNC fundraisers in Pittsburgh.

Romney could cross paths with the first lady when he holds a midday campaign roundtable at a community center in the Pittsburgh suburb of Bethel Park.

Pro-Obama super PAC to hit Romney on taxes

CNNMoney's Steve Hargreaves and CNN's Tom Cohen, John Helton, Gabriella Schwarz and Shawna Shepherd contributed to this report.

@highlight

NEW: Speaker Boehner, Sen. McConnell formally endorse Mitt Romney's candidacy

@highlight

NEW: A new CNN/ORC poll shows voters are willing to give Romney another look

@highlight

Obama says oil speculation crackdown makes up for big oil subsidies

@highlight

Romney says Obama's pushing Buffett Rule shows he's "out of ideas"(CNN) -- Politicians have always been a fat target for humorists.

"Suppose you were an idiot. And suppose you were a member of Congress," Mark Twain once observed. "But I repeat myself."

And Will Rogers once remarked, "I'm not a member of any organized political party -- I am a Democrat."

Mark Katz: The guy who makes politicians funny

But humor from politicians themselves? A much thinner volume.

Nevertheless, there have been a number of witty lines that politicians have come up with -- or, at least, for which they've received credit. Here's a sampling:

John Adams: "In my many years I have come to a conclusion that one useless man is a shame, two is a law firm, and three or more is a congress."

Abraham Lincoln: Sen. Benjamin Wade accused the president of being "the father of every military blunder that we've made. You are on the road to hell, sir, with this Government, and you are not a mile off this minute."

"Wade, that is about the distance from here to the Capitol," Lincoln replied.

Theodore Roosevelt: "When they call the roll in the Senate, the senators do not know whether to answer 'present' or 'not guilty.'"

John F. Kennedy, when asked how he became a war hero: "It was absolutely involuntary. They sank my boat."

Ronald Reagan: "I have left orders to be awakened at any time in case of national emergency -- even if I'm in a Cabinet meeting."

Bob Dole, on the Senate: "If you're hanging around with nothing to do and the zoo is closed, come over to the Senate. You'll get the same kind of feeling and you won't have to pay."

Bill Clinton, on the White House: "I don't know whether it's the finest public housing in America or the crown jewel of the American penal system.''

George W. Bush, at the 2000 Al Smith Dinner: "I see [William F.] Buckley is here tonight, fellow Yale man. We go way back, and we have a lot in common. Bill wrote a book at Yale. I read one."

Al Gore, on the 2000 election: "You know the old saying: You win some, you lose some. And then there's that little-known third category."

Barack Obama, on Donald Trump: "Now, I know that he's taken some flak lately, but no one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to rest than the Donald. And that's because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues that matter -- like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?''

Ryan highlights his mom in attacking Obama

Ann Romney expected to kick of GOP convention

Get the latest from CNN Politics

@highlight

Politicians usually take a joke - but some can make them, too

@highlight

John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan were known for their humor

@highlight

Bob Dole's wit could be particularly sharp(CNN) -- When then Sen. Obama was running for president, many of his critics accused him of being a Muslim -- as if being a Muslim in a country that prides itself for its freedom of religion is a bad thing.

In fact a Pew Research Center poll taken October 2008 found 16% of voters who identified as conservative Republicans thought he was, despite numerous photos of him and his family attending a traditional Christian church.

Despite Obama saying he was a Christian.

In July 2012, that number increased to 30% despite more photos of him attending a Christian church. Despite Obama repeating he is a Christian.

In 2008, his critics accused him of not being born in the U.S.-- despite the Republican governor of Hawaii verifying that he was and birth announcements from 1961 in the state's two primary newspapers

So in 2011, to appease these critics, Obama released the long form of his birth certificate. And in 2013 a poll taken by Fairleigh Dickinson University found that 64% of Republicans believe Obama "is hiding important information about his background and early life, which would include what's often referred to 'birtherism.' "

Or as I like to call it -- craziness.

Which brings us all to Skeet-gate.

Opinion: More gun mayhem, and yet we wait for action

In yet another attempt to appease irrational critics, the White House released a photo of the president shooting a gun to prove he is not an enemy of the Second Amendment and that he has in fact shot a gun before (as if that's required to not want criminals or the mentally ill to have access to semi-automatic weapons.)

And surprise, surprise skeptics are not satisfied, saying the picture is fake and his affinity for shooting phony, even though there's evidence of President Obama talking about practicing shooting a rifle with members of the Secret Service way back in 2010.

"One picture does not erase a lifetime of supporting every gun ban and every gun-control scheme imaginable," said Andrew Arulanandam, spokesman for the National Rifle Association.

Well Arulanadam should tell Michael Bloomberg about all of Obama's gun-control support because it seems each time there's been a mass shooting the outspoken mayor of New York tears into the president.

"The president has spent the last three years trying to avoid the issue, or if he's facing it, I don't know of anybody who has seen him face it," Bloomberg said on CBS's "Face the Nation" days after the Aurora shooting.

Bloomberg was right of course.

As a candidate in 2008, Obama talked about reinstating the federal ban on assault weapons, but he hadn't aggressively addressed guns from a policy perspective until December's Newtown tragedy. In fact, in a blatant display of hypocrisy, while the NRA demonized Obama for something he didn't do, they endorsed Mitt Romney, who actually did sign a law banning assault weapons while governor of Massachusetts.

But those are all just facts.

And when you're dealing with crazy people, it doesn't really matter how many facts you present, because -- well -- they're crazy and they're just going to believe what they're going to believe.

Ted Nugent sings praises of gun ownership

I thought the president learned this lesson after the whole Muslim/birther slander hurled his way in his first term. But, barely a couple of weeks into his second term, here Obama is once again releasing photos in an effort to silence irrational critics who pay no attention to the facts.

Some of his critics are justified in their challenges to his policies because the facts don't support some of his administration's claims.

Some critics are concerned about the direction of the economy and legitimately think he is doing a sub-par job. But there are some who just want to watch his world burn and they don't give a damn what else or who else burns with him. And it doesn't matter how many documents the White House releases, Obama simply will not win those people over.

"A lot of people want to see his college transcripts," Donald Trump said in an interview with CNBC last year. "They're not looking at his marks, his grades. ... They want to see, what does he say about place of birth. Now, those transcripts have disappeared, nobody seems to be able to get them."

After college transcripts it will be his marriage license.

Then fingerprints.

Then toe nail clippings.

This constant push to prove "he's not one of us" is not going to go away.

So the next time the NRA or Trump or whoever else feels the need to question Obama's cred, instead of posting pictures of him shooting a gun or going to church or what have you, he should post a graphic showing he's the first president since Eisenhower to capture at least 51% of the popular vote twice.

Obama still backs new gun ban; top senator less certain

That mandate from the American people is really all the cred he needs.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of LZ Granderson.

@highlight

LZ Granderson: Obama has been challenged on his religion and place of birth

@highlight

He says in both cases Obama took pains to demonstrate the truth about his background

@highlight

Now White House has released a photo of president skeet shooting to back up his statements

@highlight

LZ: Trying to appease critics who ignore the facts will never work(CNN) -- Real estate mogul, reality TV star and possible Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump told people to "stay tuned" for an unveiling of his net worth, promising more details as he addresses questions about his wealth.

"If I run for office, you are going to know exactly what I'm worth," Trump told CNN's "In the Arena," which has been investigating his finances. "You're going to know where the banks are, how much I have in the bank."

In recent months, Trump has touted his wealth as a possible asset -- and evidence of his business acumen -- as he considers whether to run against President Barack Obama in 2012. He said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union" that his "net worth is many, many, many times" that of Republican Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor who has announced his plans to run.

"I built a very big net worth and I'd like to put that ability ... to work for this country," Trump said.

On Friday, Trump continued to play up his wealth, coupled with how he has run his business.

"I have built a great company." Trump said. "I have built a company that has very little debt, has a lot of cash and I have one of the best locations anywhere in the United States."

Eliot Spitzer, the host of "In the Arena," and CNN Senior Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin are digging into a sworn deposition given by Trump in a 2007 libel case calling into question his net worth.

"Hopefully you will find out, because this country is such in bad shape somebody has to do something as quickly as possible," Trump said.

Earlier in the day, he told CNN National Correspondent Susan Candiotti that his accountants are already hard at work on the financial paperwork required of presidential candidates.

"They're in the process," said "The Apprentice" star.

Trump vowed that any financial disclosure will be released "simultaneously" if and when he announces that he's running for president.

Forbes magazine lists Trump's net worth at $2.7 billion -- a figure that he derided as "very, very low relative to what my real net worth is."

In 2004, Trump lost majority control of his casino business under a bankruptcy restructuring plan. The company cited a weak economy and burdensome interest payments as reasons for the restructuring.

Trump Entertainment Resorts filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in February 2009, according to court documents filed in Camden, New Jersey. Trump quit his position as chairman of that company, which had total assets of $2.06 billion and total debts of $1.74 billion. Around that same time, nine other of Trump Entertainment's associated companies filed for bankruptcy protection, including Trump Taj Majal Associates, Trump Marina Associates and Trump Plaza Associates.

@highlight

Donald Trump says: "If I run for office, you are going to know exactly what I'm worth"

@highlight

The real estate mogul recently has been playing up his wealth and business acumen

@highlight

Trump is considering whether to run for president in 2012 as a RepublicanDonald Trump is tweeting that "We should not be importing (Ebola) to our homeland."

An Indiana congressman is worried that refugee children from Central America could pose a public health risk with "Ebola circulating."

And the Twitter-sphere is filled with people asking "how can we bring these patients to America," complaining that "We don't have enough problems in America! Let's import Ebola patients!" and speculating that treating them here is "highly irresponsible."

But the actual possibility of catching Ebola is incredibly remote.

It's a terrifying disease for sure. It typically kills 90% of the people who get it, and this most recent outbreak is the largest in history. But you don't need to panic, experts say, and you definitely don't have to worry about the two American Ebola patients who are being treated in Atlanta.

Here are five reasons why:

1. It's fragile.

Ebola is an incredibly fragile virus. It does not fly through the air with the greatest of ease.  It cannot be transmitted through a cough or sneeze. It doesn't move easily from human to human like the common cold.

Ebola is aggressively infectious, so people who are infected are highly likely to get sick. But it's not highly contagious.

"The Ebola virus spreads through direct contact with the blood, secretions or other body fluids of ill people and indirect contact -- for example, with needles and other things that may be contaminated with these fluids," said Stephan Monroe, deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control's National Center for Emerging Zoonotic and Infectious Diseases.

That's why health care providers who work in countries without proper protective gear can get it. That's also why people preparing bodies for burial have gotten it.

2. We know how it works.

Although there is no vaccine and no cure, the one real advantage we have with Ebola is that doctors know how to control it.

Ebola isn't "some mystical pathogen (with) some bizarre mode of transmission," said Bruce Ribner, who oversees the special isolation unit that is treating the patients at Emory University Hospital.

Common-sense hygiene can stop its spread.

"Ebola is a virus that can be stopped and not spread in hospitals. The stakes are higher, but it's easily inactivated with typical hospital disinfectants," said Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Tom Frieden.

What to know about Ebola

3. We have the resources to contain it.

The two American patients with Ebola were flown to the United States in a plane outfitted with an isolation pod.

They are being kept in isolation at the Emory hospital with a specialized containment ward, one of four in the country.

In the containment ward, the vents are specialized. There's an intercom and plate glass that separates  patients from  visitors so they don't come into direct contact. There's a strict protocol on everyone and everything that goes into and out of the patient's room. Health care workers wear protective suits.

But any major medical center could really take care of an Ebola patient, said William Schaffner, an expert on infectious diseases at Vanderbilt University's School of Medicine.

Most ICUs have isolation rooms that are used for patients suspected to have tuberculosis, SARS, Middle East respiratory syndrome or another infectious disease. Schaffner said that not much would be different for an Ebola patient, though more stringent precautions might be taken to ensure that health care workers are following all protocols.

4. Our medical staff is ready.

"We have been training for this," Ribner said of preparations for the two American Ebola patients. These doctors know how to handle Ebola and will use an abundance of caution when working with an infected person.

Medical workers across the country have also been told to watch out for Ebola symptoms and question patients who have recently traveled to West Africa. They are trained to recognize Ebola cases and can quarantine them early, keeping others from coming into contact with an infected person's bodily fluids while the disease runs its course.

9 questions about this new Ebola drug

5. Airports are on alert.

At African airports in the Ebola-affected region, passengers are being closely screened.  Health experts are watching for people with high fevers. Those who have a temperature are removed and monitored while doctors test their blood for Ebola.

When passengers arrive at the airport, they are required to wash their hands in a chlorinated solution. Customs agents and  passport inspectors are also wearing surgical gloves when interacting with passengers.

"There is always the possibility that someone with an infectious disease can enter the United States," CDC spokeswoman Barbara Reynolds said Monday. "The public health concern is whether it would spread and, if so, how quickly.'"

What is the risk of catching Ebola on a plane?

At U.S. airports, trained federal agents also watch for sick passengers. Border patrol is asking about potential exposure.  If someone is sick, agents can remove them and keep them in the special isolation units kept at many U.S. airports until the CDC arrives to ask further questions.

Overall, health experts say, the threat to Americans remains relatively small. In the past decade, five people have entered the U.S. known to have a viral hemorrhagic fever, including a case in March of a Minnesota man diagnosed with Lassa fever after traveling to West Africa. No one else contracted the disease.

@highlight

Ebola is aggressively infectious; it is not highly contagious

@highlight

Doctors know how it spreads and can keep contamination down

@highlight

Doctors have trained for years on how to handle these patients

@highlight

In past decade, five people known to have viral hemorrhagic fever have entered U.S.(CNN) -- Hailed as the "world's greatest golf course" by its owner before it had even opened, Trump International Links has a lot to live up to.

The statement would have been ridiculed by the golfing community had it not been made by a man who has pumped $150 million into his dream to date, with plans to spend over $1 billion by the time the controversial Scottish project is completed.

It has already bulldozed past environmentalists' concerns, but Donald Trump is reluctant to continue development due to a planned offshore wind farm.

The fact that some of the key names in European golf attended this month's opening -- surrounded by bagpipers and the miles of towering sand dunes along its Aberdeenshire coast site -- is testament to the power of his brand.

The American billionaire owns a dozen luxury golf resorts -- including Florida's faded Doral and its renowned "Blue Monster" course which he plans to renovate -- but can his UK venture be considered a contender for top spot so early on?

Blowing in the wind? Trump threatens to ditch $1B Scottish golf resort

Of course, criteria for judging the "greatest" vary from golfer to golfer, with emphasis ranging from degree of challenge to spectacular views or history.

For Trump International to be considered as one of the greats, it first has to establish itself as a venue among Scottish links courses. That will be no mean feat, with illustrious company including "the home of golf "St. Andrews and other current Open venues Muirfield, Turnberry, Royal Troon and Carnoustie.

Turnberry stands out as the most picturesque of those courses, while Muirfield hosts the world's oldest golf club and Carnoustie is often regarded as the toughest.

On the other side of the Irish Sea, there are the two outstanding links courses currently vying to host an Open; Royal County Down and Royal Portrush.

There's also hot competition south of the border in England, including the traditional highly-rated links of Royal St. George's and this year's Open venue, Royal Lytham and St. Annes. The latter has seen the great amateur golfer Bobby Jones in 1926 and flamboyant Spaniard Seve Ballesteros in 1979 and 1988 among its victors.

Trump International is starting on the back foot against its British rivals, but with broadcast cables already running beneath the course and a plan in place for several thousand spectators, it has a strong case to one day host major tournaments.

Perhaps a fairer match for the new course would be against eight-year-old Cape Kidnappers in New Zealand, which runs along and around ridges on a secluded stretch of jagged coastline. It has already jumped up magazine rankings and attracted visitors from around the world with its spectacular views.

The edge that Trump International possesses is that it can be classed as links golf, which is favored by purists as the "true" setting for the game.

Acclaimed English golf architect Martin Hawtree has skilfully routed holes around and between the massive dunes, some measuring 80 feet in height. His family business has worked on course designs for a hundred years and put its hand to several British Open venues.

To get to the very top, Trump's new creation must surpass several private and exclusive courses in his home country, which have dominated magazine rankings for decades.

Cypress Point in California boasts some of the most dramatic holes in the world, playing over Pacific Ocean bays where seals bask on the rocks amid crashing waves.

The course was styled by Alister MacKenzie -- a renowned architect who also designed Augusta National, the lush and colorful Georgia setting for the annual Masters Tournament since 1934.

Most golfers can only dream of setting foot on these courses, along with Pine Valley in New Jersey, often considered the most perfect example of golf architecture on land that -- unlike the stunning natural beauty that awaits players at Trump International -- was previously unremarkable.

The notable exception to the top-ranked private clubs in the U.S. is Pebble Beach, the picturesque Californian coastal course which is a video-game favorite and open to the public. It's not cheap though, with a round costing $495 per person.

One venue that every other struggles to compete with is St. Andrews' Old Course, which is at the top of every golfer's bucket list. It might not be the most dramatic or challenging course but it will always be the home of the game, where hard wooden balls were thrashed around wasteland almost six hundred years ago.

Trump International cannot compete with the history of its Scottish neighbors and it won't echo the exclusivity and originality of some of its American cousins.

Unlike many of its iconic rivals, it has no "signature" hole, but is comprised of a series of stern but fair tests that will suit different players according to personal preference.

However, as it matures into its "championship course" billing with the backing of the professional game's organizers, it certainly has a fighting chance of one day becoming the most dramatic of tournament venues.

Which are your favorite golf courses? Have your say in the comments box below.

@highlight

Donald Trump's Scottish golf course has opened at a cost of $150 million

@highlight

American billionaire hailed it as the best in the world before the ribbon was cut

@highlight

It faces stiff competition for the accolade from several other British links courses

@highlight

Trump's project is also up against iconic contenders from the United States(CNN) -- Miley Cyrus is an addict. The "drug" she can't get enough of is potentially one of the most dangerous ones out there: Fame.

I bet that Miley won't even be upset with me saying this about her. Why? Because her name is in the headline of this article. And on some level, I -- along with others in the media -- am enabling her addiction.

But Miley is not the only person who craves fame. America is filled with people like Miley. Just watch any "Real Housewives of_____," "American Idol" auditions, "The X Factor," etc. Even I enjoy making appearances on cable TV. Of course, I don't appear on these shows like Cyrus, scantily clad with my tongue hanging out and twerking nonstop. (And I'm sure not many people would want to see me do that.)

Miley may only be 20 years old, but she has mastered the game of manipulating the media to follow her every move. She did it in August at the MTV Music Awards when she dry-humped singer Robin Thicke.

She followed it up in September with the release of her music video, "Wrecking Ball," in which she appeared naked while swinging on a wrecking ball. And just this past weekend she lit up a marijuana joint and smoked it during MTV's European Awards telecast. Granted, the awards show was held in Amsterdam, where marijuana is legal. In fact, there's even a Museum of Marijuana over there.

Would Miley have smoked pot on a U.S. TV show, in violation of the law? Maybe. In order for Miley to get her fame fix, she'll need to come up with more and more outrageous antics.

There really is no incentive for Miley to change her ways. After all, she isn't doing it for the money -- her net worth is estimated to be $120-150 million. But rather, she would do it for the high of seeing her name in the headlines.

At this point, there are a few paths Miley can take.

She can follow the footsteps of fame junkies like Donald Trump and Sarah Palin and become nothing more than a walking punch line.

She can sadly go down the trail of young stars whose lives tragically ended at an early age because fame -- or the loss of it -- was too painful to endure.

Or -- and this is my sincere hope -- Miley can follow the lead of fame addicts who use their name recognition to call attention to pressing social or political issues and push for positive change. A good example of this type of person is Lady Gaga.

Lady Gaga loves fame. The lyrics of her new hit song "Applause" makes this point abundantly clear. "I live for the applause ... Live for the way that you cheer and scream for me."

We've seen Gaga wear a dress made of real meat and be carried to an awards show in a large egg pod. Just this week, at the release party for her new album, she wore a dress that had mini-helicopter-type rotors attached to it so she could fly around the room.

But Lady Gaga has also used her fame for more than just self-promotion. This week while Miley Cyrus was smoking a joint on stage, Lady Gaga was opening up about her addiction to marijuana. She admitted that at one time she smoked 15-20 joints a day. She talked about her struggles in overcoming addiction.

Gaga offered a sobering cautionary tale for young people that marijuana may turn out to be more than recreational fun -- it could consume your life.

And for years, Lady Gaga has used her fame to sway public opinion on gay rights. She called on President Obama to support marriage equality years before he finally did. She also pushed for an end to the military's "Don't ask, don't tell" policy.

Of course, while she was advocating for changes she was getting plenty of media coverage. It's a win-win situation.

So, Miley, twerk all you want, but in between your publicity binges, why not also talk about issues that demand more attention, such as domestic violence, child poverty, gun safety, etc.? Think of it as: "Twerking for a cause." Believe me, the press will love it and so will the people you are helping.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Like many stars, Miley Cyrus is addicted to fame

@highlight

Obeidallah: There is no incentive for Miley to change, but what path will she take?

@highlight

He says Miley should follow the likes of Lady Gaga, who use fame to fight for social justice

@highlight

Obeidallah: It's a win-win situation; the media will love Miley all the more for it(CNN) -- Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, a former top aide to President George W. Bush, ended his very public flirtation with running for president early Sunday with an e-mail to supporters that narrowed the field of plausible 2012 Republican challengers to President Barack Obama.

"The counsel and encouragement I received from important citizens like you caused me to think very deeply about becoming a national candidate," Daniels said in the message distributed through the Indiana Republican Party.

"In the end, I was able to resolve every competing consideration but one, but that, the interests and wishes of my family, is the most important consideration of all."

With top Republicans anxious about what many view as the underwhelming state of the Republican field, Daniels was pressed to enter the race by close advisers and former Bush administration officials who worked with him when he served as White House budget director from 2001 to 2003.

Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty, who is expected to announce Monday in Iowa that he will seek the Republican nomination, issued a statement Sunday praising Daniels.

"Mitch Daniels is a friend of mine and one of the best governors in the country," Pawlenty said.  "While he may not be running, he is an intellectual powerhouse and will continue to play a leading role in the party's politics and the nation's policies."

Pawlenty also said he and Daniels "agree that America's out-of-control national debt is a threat to our nation's future, and that the next president must restore fiscal responsibility in Washington, DC."

Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, a top contender in 2008, is also expected to run.

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich has declared his candidacy.

"Mitch Daniels is a great governor and a remarkable innovator," Gingrich said in a statement Sunday.  "Mitch has brought successful reforms to Indiana that should be replicated across the country and in Washington.  He will continue to be an important leader in solving America's problems."

Radio host Herman Cain has declared candidacy as well.

Jon Huntsman, who recently stepped down as U.S. ambassador to China and is mulling a White House run himself, said "Mitch Daniels will be missed in this presidential debate, but his message about the most immediate threat facing our nation -- the massive debt -- will not go unheard."

In his statement, Huntsman said he has "learned a lot from (Daniels') leadership" and looks "forward to working with him to promote long-term solutions" to problems facing the United States.

Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour, a Republican Party powerhouse, said last month that he would not run, and encouraged Daniels to go for it.

Indiana Democrats used Daniels' announcement to knock the Republican contenders.  "We've disagreed with Mitch Daniels myriad times, but there's no doubt that his decision not to enter this race is a loss for Republicans," the Indiana Democratic Party said in a statement Sunday.  "Daniels would have brought a serious tone to a GOP field that's thus far been characterized by silliness and distraction."

The killing of Osama bin Laden by Navy SEALs in Pakistan gave President Obama's popularity a big boost.  But America's economic recovery remains sluggish. If it stays weak, some believe, Obama is beatable next year.

In considering a presidential bid, Daniels had publicly fretted about his family's well-being.

His dramatic marriage -- he and his wife Cheri divorced, then re-married in the 1990s -- had recently spilled into public view.

The famously private Cheri Daniels spoke at a spring fundraiser for the Indiana GOP this month, an event political observers watched closely to see whether the Daniels family was prepared to leap into the presidential fray.

Even after the speech, the Indiana first lady said she was "nervous" about her personal life becoming public fodder.

Daniels, too, seemed reluctant to join the race and openly questioned whether he had the desire to survive the long and exhausting marathon of running for president -- indecision that led some observers to dub him "The Hoosier Hamlet."

"Maybe I could do that, maybe someone else could do it better," Daniels said recently when asked whether he wanted to run.

It seemed throughout the decision-making process that his advisers and supporters wanted him to run more than he did.

"If I have disappointed you, I will always be sorry," Daniels wrote in the late night e-mail.

"If you feel that this was a non-courageous or unpatriotic decision, I understand and will not attempt to persuade you otherwise. I only hope that you will accept my sincerity in the judgment I reached."

Daniels, who became Indiana governor in 2005, would have presented himself as the most fiscally conservative choice among the Republican presidential candidates. He flipped a state budget deficit into a surplus, reduced tax rates and passed a sweeping education reform package in the most recent legislative session.

The announcement that Daniels will not run in 2012 comes a week after former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee announced he would not seek the nomination. Huckabee won the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses in 2008 and was considered a top contender this time around.

Flamboyant television personality and real estate magnate Donald Trump also said this month he would not seek the Republican nomination after appearing to position himself for

@highlight

NEW: Pawlenty, Gingrich, Huntsman praise Daniels

@highlight

Daniels 'would have brought a serious tone' to the GOP field, Indiana Dems say

@highlight

Top Republicans are anxious about the state of the GOP field

@highlight

Daniels cites family considerations for his decision(CNN) -- Climate protesters demonstrating against Donald Trump's plans for a sports resort broke into a Scottish airport Tuesday, setting up a small golf course and scaling the roof of a terminal building.

Climate protesters broke into Aberdeen Airport in the early hours of Tuesday to demonstrate against plans for expansion.

Flights at Aberdeen airport were returning to normal by midday after the activists breached the security fence overnight, the airport authority said.

Nine members of Plane Stupid, which campaigns against airport expansion and aviation-related climate change, entered the airport grounds at about 2:15 a.m. Tuesday (9:15 p.m. Monday ET), the group said. A spokesman for the airport called the protest "dangerous and highly irresponsible."

By mid-morning, the seven members on the ground had been arrested, but the two protesters remained on the roof, group spokesman Leo Mullay told CNN.

He explained that the group is against plans to expand the one-runway airport for the American millionaire's planned golf resort in the region.

"It's going to cause a huge increase in emissions," Mullay said. "There's simply no capacity within our carbon budget for more flying."

Trump's plans call for a golf resort to be built on 1,400 acres along Scotland's northeast coast, just north of Aberdeen, according to the resort's Web site. Trump International Golf Links, Scotland, is to feature two championship-caliber golf courses and a five-star luxury hotel.

Trump's resort is in the planning stages, project director Neil Hobday told CNN. But he rejected the idea that the airport is expanding because of the Trump resort.

"The runway issue has been going on long before we got here," Hobday told CNN. It's "nothing to do with us. They were going to lengthen the runway whether we were here or not."

The protest caused a backlog of flights at the airport, a major gateway for Scotland and one of Europe's busiest heliports, airport officials said.

Outbound flights resumed just after 9 a.m. (4 a.m. ET), but there remained some delays and cancellations, according to the airport's Web site.

"Despite the runway being open and available for use, the earlier protest is likely to cause some knock-on disruption during the course of the day and passengers are being asked to check the status of their flight," an airport statement said.

@highlight

Protest caused a backlog of flights at the airport, a major gateway for Scotland

@highlight

Donald Trump plans a golf resort on a 1,400-acre site alongside Scotland's NE coast

@highlight

Activists claim that the airport in nearby Aberdeen will have to expand as a result

@highlight

Trump project director: Runway issue was ongoing long before we got here(CNN) -- The facts show, and President Barack Obama and his Republican challenger Mitt Romney agree, that U.S. production of oil and gas has increased over the past four years.

But is this rise because of Obama, or "in spite of his policies," as the former Massachusetts governor said at Wednesday night's debate?

"All of the increase in natural gas and oil has happened on private land, not on government land," Romney said. "On government land, your administration has cut the number of permits and licenses in half."

The facts:

The Republican nominee's assertions can be broken down into two parts. The first has to do whether "all of the increases in natural gas and oil" under Obama are attributable to drilling on private land, rather than federal and Indian lands and offshore areas.

This statement raises a few questions. Firstly, has there been more oil and gas production, relatively, on private lands versus federal lands? Secondly, does the federal government, through regulations and license approvals, have any impact on oil and gas production on private land? And last, can "all" the increase in production be tied to production on private lands?

There is no dispute that natural gas production on private lands has increased. Adam Sieminski, head of the U.S. Energy Information Administration, told a congressional subcommittee in August that it went up "by 16.4 billion cubic feet per day" from fiscal year 2005 to fiscal year 2011, which ended September 30, 2011 -- a period that includes parts of the administrations of both President George W. Bush and Obama.

Meanwhile, natural gas production on federal and Indian lands has steadily fallen, a trend that began around fall 2002. This is due to a consistent decrease in offshore gas drilling, though such gas production onshore, on federal lands, is actually higher now than it was at the end of the Bush administration.

Overall, the percentage of U.S.-produced natural gas from federal lands -- relative to that produced from private ones -- fell significantly over the past eight years, from 35% to 21%, reported Sieminski.

Oil production is more a mixed bag. On state and private lands, oil production was actually going down in the 2000s, leveled off between fiscal years 2007 and 2010, then went up by 385,000 barrels a day in fiscal year 2011, when the most recent data are available, Sieminski said.

On federal and Indian lands, as well as federally approved offshore drilling sites, oil production went up from 1.6 million barrels per day to 2 million barrels per day between fiscal years 2008 and 2010. But it dropped to 1.8 million barrels per day for the last fiscal year available, a decrease that the U.S. Energy Information Administration attributes to the impact of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.

Despite the one-year drop in production, oil production on federal and Indian lands from 2009 through 2011 totaled 2.027 million barrels. That's an average of 675,000 barrels per year during Obama's term, compared to an average annual production of 609,000 barrels annually during Bush's last term.

Now, moving onto the second part of Romney's statement -- that Obama's "administration has cut the number of permits and licenses in half."

The Institute for Energy Research, a nonprofit research and advocacy group that has been critical of Obama, asserted in a September 26 report that the rate of oil and gas leasing (or licenses, as Romney stated) "has slowed by about half."

It then directs readers to a chart on the federal Bureau of Land Management's website.

This chart does show that fewer leases have been granted under the first three years of Obama's administration, compared to the last few years under Bush. Fewer drilling permits have also been issued, for these lands.

During the last three fiscal years totally under Bush, there were 9,661 "new leases" granted for federal lands. For the three most recent fiscal years (which includes a few months of Bush's administration), there were 5,568 such new leases. This works out to a 42.4% decrease.

Take the same comparable periods for drilling permits on federal lands. There were 20,479 for the last three years under Bush, then 12,821 for the most recent three including much of Obama's first term. This is a 37.4% decrease.

Complete coverage of CNN's Fact Checks

Conclusion:

There has been more oil and natural production on private lands than in federally controlled areas. So Romney is correct in pointing out an imbalance.

But it is an overstatement to say that "all of the increase" has been on private lands -- since, by definition, new permits and licenses have been granted for federal lands (bringing in more gas and oil).

Romney's claim that Obama's administration has "cut the number of permits and licenses in half" for federal lands is also not on the mark.

True, there has been a significant drop -- one tied, in part, to the unprecedented Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Yet the actual numbers of permits and licenses haven't been "cut ... in half." As mentioned above (and including data from part of the Bush administration), there has been a 42% decrease in leases and 37% decrease in drilling permits -- not 50%, as Romney implied.

Even the Institute for Energy Research acknowledged that "this decrease isn't a result of President Obama's policies exclusively, but it is the result of decades and policies that have systematically reduced energy production on federal lands."

Fact Check: Is Donald Trump a small business?

Fact Check: Job creation versus unemployment

Fact Check: Green energy

Fact Check: Seniors' drug prices

CNN's Lindsey Knight and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.

@highlight

Oil and natural gas production did rise in the past four years, much of it on private land

@highlight

Romney: The whole rise in U.S. gas and oil production "happened on private land"

@highlight

Romney: Obama "cut the number of permits and licenses in half" -- which isn't quite true(CNN) -- She's been a comedian, talk-show host and feared red carpet fashion critic. Now you can add winner of "The Celebrity Apprentice" to Joan Rivers' lengthy resume.

Donald Trump and Joan Rivers attend "The Celebrity Apprentice" season finale Sunday in New York.

After weeks of competition, the 75-year-old dynamo beat out 15 other contestants, including Dennis Rodman, Tom Green and Brian McKnight, to take the top spot in this season's edition of the reality show hosted by Donald Trump.

Rivers went up against poker champion Annie Duke in Sunday night's finale in which both women were charged with planning a VIP party and silent auction for the last and deciding task.

"They're both tough, they're both smart and they both hate each other," Trump observed at the beginning of the show.

The apparent tension between Rivers and Duke continued in the final boardroom, part of which played out in front of a live audience, with both finalists bickering and interrupting each other repeatedly as Trump looked on.

In the end, Duke raised far more money at her event, but Rivers was able to attract more celebrities and provide a better overall experience for the guests at her party, and Trump declared her the winner of the competition.

"Your level of energy has been amazing," he told Rivers.

The victory means $250,000 for Rivers' charity: God's Love We Deliver.

If the series thrives on conflict, it got plenty of mileage out of Rivers. She blew up at country singer Clint Black, referred to another contestant as a "stupid blonde" and smashed a champagne glass out of frustration at one point.

But Rivers seemed to be especially infuriated by Duke, calling her a "despicable human being" -- the tamest of the insults she hurled in Duke's direction over the course of the series.

Rivers even walked out in a huff after her daughter, and fellow contestant, Melissa was fired from the show. The exit, complete with bleeped obscenities, was turned into a cliffhanger of sorts when it seemed like Rivers might not come back, but she returned to the show for the next task.

You might think a show that's best known for the phrase "You're fired" might not do so well in a bad economy when thousands of people have heard similar words for real at their workplaces, but the series averaged more than 8 million viewers a week, according to Entertainment Weekly. EW: Did the right one win?

Revived formula

"The Apprentice" made a splash when it debuted in 2004, making a reality television star out of Trump and contestants such as Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth. For several seasons, the series took ambitious young mogul wannabes, divided them into teams and had them compete in tasks that ranged from selling lemonade to creating advertising campaigns for major corporations.

The contestants vied for the chance to run one of Trump's companies for a year, and Trump fired someone from the losing team each week until he selected an apprentice. Over the years, ratings for the show gradually declined, but the formula was revived in early 2008 with the first season of "The Celebrity Apprentice."

The tasks, pressure-cooker atmosphere and boardroom bickering stayed the same, but the competition now featured contestants with varying degrees of fame and focused on raising money for charity.

The first "Celebrity Apprentice" top spot went to Piers Morgan, the prickly judge on "Britain's Got Talent" who made news this spring when he invited singing sensation Susan Boyle to dinner after her memorable performance on the show.

Morgan also made several appearances on this season's "Apprentice," sitting in as Trump's "eyes and ears" during one episode and interviewing the final four candidates in another.

Morgan's aggressive questioning seemed to annoy the celebrities, especially Jesse James, who glared icily at Morgan when he kept asking him why he did not turn to his wife, Sandra Bullock, for help in raising money during the various tasks.

Perhaps Bullock might be tempted to try competing on the show herself.

NBC announced last month it is bringing back "The Celebrity Apprentice" for another installment in the spring of 2010, Entertainment Weekly reported.

@highlight

Joan Rivers wins this season's "Celebrity Apprentice"

@highlight

Rivers goes up against poker champion Annie Duke in finale

@highlight

Duke raises more money at her event, but Rivers is able to attract more celebrities

@highlight

The victory means $250,000 for Rivers' charityWashington (CNN) -- It's August, the dog days of summer, and President Barack Obama and Congress are making a break from the nation's capital. The president heads West for a quick trip on the economy that includes a visit with Jay Leno, while federal lawmakers begin their five-week summer recess.

Mitt Romney, a couple men who might have hopes of being the next Republican presidential nominee, and a first-term congressman from Arkansas also will be political stories in the week ahead.

1. Taking it to the states

While lawmakers may have left Washington for the sticky month of August, their political battles aren't taking a rest. The sniping over Obamacare, immigration and the budget is only set to amplify as outside groups hit states to rally supporters behind their causes.

Like August 2009, when rowdy town halls across the country helped fuel the burgeoning tea party movement, health care will provide conservative activists with a rallying cry for smaller government and less federal spending -- though this time around, Obamacare supporters are also getting into the town hall business.

Obamacare battle heads to states

Organizing for Action, the advocacy group formed from the remnants of Obama's presidential campaign, will get started Sunday with community events and house parties pegged to the president's 52nd birthday. The Obamacare rallies, part of the group's "Action August" initiative, are designed to counter conservatives who are also darting across the country to push against the president's sweeping health care law.

While the 2009 rallies loudly pushed elected officials to reject the president's plans, conservative events this year will advocate defunding the law, which was enacted in 2010 and deemed constitutional last summer by the Supreme Court.

Some conservative lawmakers -- including Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, Rep. Marco Rubio of Florida and Sen. Mike Lee of Utah -- are using impending budget battles as leverage, vowing to oppose any measure that provides funding for the federal government that includes funding for the health care law. The measure funding the government expires September 30, setting up another Capitol Hill budget battle between Republicans and the White House.

Other Republicans, however, have voiced opposition to threatening a government shutdown in order to gut the health care law.

Boehner's juggling act: Killing Obamacare and avoiding shutdown

Other groups hitting the road: the anti-Obamacare Tea Party Patriots, ForAmerica and Americans for Prosperity; and the pro-Obamacare Americans United for Change and Protect your Care.

2. Obama heads West

With economic speeches in Illinois, Missouri, Florida and Tennessee under his belt, Obama heads west Tuesday to Arizona, this time to talk housing in a market that's seeing recovery after home prices plummeted.

Phoenix was one of the worst hit areas during the housing crisis, seeing home prices drop more than 50% between 2006 and 2011. But things are looking up -- a closely watched index out this week showed home prices there were up more than 20% from a year ago.

CNNMoney.com: Home prices keep soaring

But homeownership around the nation is still at record lows, and according to a report this week from a federal watchdog, borrowers who received help through the government's main foreclosure prevention program are re-defaulting on their mortgages at alarming rates.

"In Arizona, the president will lay out his plan to continue to help responsible homeowners and those Americans who seek to own their own homes as another cornerstone of how we can strengthen the middle class in America," White House press secretary Jay Carney said this week.

The speech is a continuation of the president's push to turn back to the economy and jobs, which Americans still rate as their top issues in public polling. Republicans have largely been skeptical of the new effort, casting it as yet another "pivot" that hasn't resulted in any new proposals.

While out West, the president will also drop in on Jay Leno, taping an appearance on "The Tonight Show" on Tuesday. He'll also visit servicemen and women at southern California's Camp Pendleton.

3. He's back!

Mitt Romney is attending his first political fundraiser since he lost last November's presidential election.

The former Massachusetts governor and 2012 GOP nominee will be the headliner at a New Hampshire Republican Party reception and fundraiser. The event will take place on Tuesday in the Granite State's lakes region, near Romney's vacation home in Wolfeboro, along Lake Winnipesaukee.

The New Hampshire Republican Party told CNN that general admission tickets for the event are sold out.

"The dinner will give Romney's many local supporters in New Hampshire a chance to see him again," Ryan Williams, an adviser to the New Hampshire GOP who worked on the Romney campaign, told CNN.

Was Mitt Romney right about Detroit and Russia?

Following November's election loss, Romney spent much of his time out of the public eye, but he recently re-entered the spotlight, holding a multiday conference in Park City, Utah, that featured several prospective 2016 presidential candidates and other national leaders, as well as some of the GOP's major donors.

4. Is the next race already under way?

Two men who might aspire to be the Republican presidential nominee in 2016 head to -- you guessed it -- Iowa at the end of the week.

Former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who battled Romney deep into last year's GOP primaries, and freshman Sen. Ted Cruz will have prominent speaking roles at the 2013 Family Leadership Summit.

The event's being put on by the Family Leader, a group that's influential with social conservatives in Iowa. Social conservative voters are a key constituency among Hawkeye State Republicans, and Iowa's caucuses lead off the presidential primary and caucus calendar.

Santorum is well known and respected among social conservatives. Cruz, who was elected to the Senate last year thanks to strong support from tea party and other grassroots conservatives, is fast becoming a rising star on the right.

Also speaking at the gathering: Donald Trump, who once again might be flirting with running for president.

5. Game on in crucial Senate battle

Get ready for what could be another crucial and bruising 2014 Senate battle, this time in Arkansas, which could ultimately decide whether the Democrats keep control of the chamber.

Republican Rep. Tom Cotton is expected to announce Tuesday that he's running against incumbent two-term U.S. Sen. Mark Pryor, who is considered one of the most vulnerable Democratic senators up for re-election next year.

Cotton, who served in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, is considered a rising star in the GOP and is a favorite of many neoconservatives. The representative, who was just elected to Congress this past November, has been a frequent guest on cable news channels, including CNN.

Next year the Democrats will try to maintain their majority in the Senate, where they hold a 54-46 edge (including two independents who caucus with the party) over the GOP. They hope to expand that to 55-45 following October's special Senate election in New Jersey, which they are favored to win.

But they most likely will be defending 21 of 35 seats up for grabs in November 2014.

@highlight

Advocacy about Obamacare is planned by liberals and conservatives

@highlight

President Obama heads West to talk about the housing in Phoenix

@highlight

Mitt Romney returns to the political stage with a fundraiser in New Hampshire

@highlight

Former Sen. Rick Santorum and Sen. Ted Cruz address a conservative gathering in IowaCHICAGO, Illinois (CNN)  -- One of Chicago's most well-known real estate moguls appears to have shot himself to death, police said.

Steven Good was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot Monday, police said.

The body of Steven L. Good was found in his Jaguar on Monday. The car was spotted in a parking lot of a wildlife preserve in Kane County, Illinois, just outside Chicago, authorities said.

No note was found, and police say they do not know how long the 52-year-old had been in the vehicle.

Good was the chairman and chief executive officer of Sheldon Good & Co., a major U.S. real estate auction company.

The death comes amid great turmoil in the country's real estate industry. In his role as chairman of the Realtors Commercial Alliance Committee, Good commented on tough conditions last month at a business conference.

On a memorial blog set up by the Chicago Association of Realtors, for which Good once served as president, friends and colleagues described him as a gregarious man with a big personality. He was a savvy businessman who built his company into a major national real estate company that did deals with Donald Trump, they said.

"It is testimony to Steve's leadership that Sheldon Good & Co. remains well-positioned for the future," said Sheldon Good President Alan R. Kravets.

"The guy was a true blue Realtor," said Barbara Matthopoulos, the association's spokeswoman.

She was new to real estate when she met Good more than a year ago. He took time to give her advice that has helped her grow to love the business.

"Anybody who knew him would speak to his leadership, his generosity, his attitude. The guy was just very positive, always smiling, always telling you a story. He was engaged. Everyone is really very shocked," she said. "I doubt anyone could help explain why this happened."

Kane County Sheriff's Department spokesman Lt. Pat Gengler said authorities don't have any "concrete evidence if this had anything to do with his finances."

The company was founded by Good's father, Sheldon Good, in 1965, according to the firm's Web site.

Steven Good had "been involved in the sale of more than $4 billion of real estate, including commercial, office, retail, industrial, residential, and vacant land sites," it says.

"Mr. Good is the driving force behind the expansion of the company, which has been ranked as the largest firm in the United States exclusively conducting real estate auctions."

Good, who was also an attorney, wrote a book, "Churches, Jails and Gold Mines: Mega-Deals From a Real Estate Maverick." According to Amazon.com, Donald Trump wrote the afterword.

The first chapter begins, "Our auction company is to the real estate business what Sotheby's and Christie's is the fine art and collectibles business." The book goes to say that as of its 2003 publication, the firm had sold 40,000 properties totaling $8 billion.

"If you lined up 1,000 people and said pick the one that might do this to themselves, he would be the last person I would choose," said Wayne Caplan, who worked at Sheldon Good for six years and knew Steven Good personally. "He had a zest for life. He has a wife and kids and he had so much in his life."

@highlight

Steven L. Good was found dead of an apparent gunshot wound in his car Monday

@highlight

Good was a well-known real estate businessman in Chicago

@highlight

Friends, family shocked, saddened by what police say appears to be a suicideDonald Trump seems to have hit hard times. The unfortunate fellow has been forced to buy a second-hand 757 from Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen for a paltry $100 million -- though he did then coat every metal surface in gold.

But had he been feeling really extravagant, he could have thrown the kids' inheritance at a Boeing Business Jet (BBJ) with a new MAX engine -- the latest technological jump from the company that recently unveiled the 747-8, their largest offering to-date and the longest commercial jet in the world.

Boeing Business Jets -- the division dedicated to pimping out their commercial airliners and selling them to embarrassingly rich people -- has taken this beast under its wing.

The 747-8 Intercontinental is the latest, longest and about the most expensive corporate jet in the world -- a shiny new, "green" (empty) 747-8 will set you back $300 million, but with a VIP fit-out the figure is closer to $500 million.

But what else is there out there for those with a few hundred million to splash?

Also on CNNGo: What's so special about the 787 Dreamliner?

The jet set

The traditional Boeing Business Jets are the 700-, 800- and 900ER-series 737s at 34 meters, 40 meters and 42 meters long. You'll pay up to $115 million for the largest of these.

At the top end of the line is the superlative-filled super-jumbo.

A touch over 76 meters long, the 747-8i VIP also boasts a cabin 6.1 meters wide, dwarfing the BBJ's (only the 737s are referred to as "BBJs" -- all other models are "VIP") 3.5 meters, and it has up to 525 square meters of floor-space -- two or three times the size of your average house.

Then there's the latest engine. Boeing recently announced that the "MAX" engine is now available as an option for all new 737 orders for commercial airliners, asserting that it can offer fuel-savings of up to 16 percent over competitors.

"We intend to take advantage of the improved efficiency of the new 737 MAX family for our BBJ product line," says BBJ president Steve Taylor. "We've studied the capabilities of all the MAX variants and of course they offer significant range, economic and environmental benefits over the current line of BBJ products."

Also on CNNGo: World's biggest model airport

Who's buying?

Boeing is tight-lipped about who, exactly, is buying these "flying castles" -- apparently crazy-rich people cherish their anonymity -- but can reveal that almost half of the 206 BBJs and VIPs ordered since their launch in 1996 have gone to private owners, and a third of them have headed for the Middle East.

Trump's "new" 757 is basically a 20-year-old 737, but with a fuselage that's five meters longer. With a poky floor-space of 125 square meters and a range of around 8,000 kilometers, it's a far cry from the 747-8 VIP, whose range is over 17,000 kilometers.

But for the multi-millionaire tech-heads who just have to possess the very latest technology, and you're less concerned about spacious luxury than you are about speed, there's a new corporate jet dubbed the Arion SBJ that'll get you from A to B at Mach 2 for the bargain price of $80 million.

The release date's not set, but pre-orders are now open. The company claims to have $4 billion worth of "letters of intent" for what will no doubt be the gem at every air show for years to come.

Also on CNNGo: 10 great cities, 100 fantastic free attractions

@highlight

The 747-8 Intercontinental is the latest, longest and about the most expensive corporate jet in the world

@highlight

The new "MAX" engine can offer fuel-savings of up to 16 percent over competitors, Boeing says

@highlight

Boeing is tight-lipped about who, exactly, is buying these "flying castles"When Stephanie Van Pelt needed to care for her son after surgery, her company gave her the option to work from home.

"They didn't lose my productivity," Van Pelt posted on Google+. "They gained an intensely loyal, hard-working employee that was so pleased with not having to take (time) off."

Van Pelt was weighing in on the recent news that Yahoo is ending its work-from-home policy. The change, announced Monday by Yahoo human resources chief Jackie Reses, is expected to affect hundreds of employees. It is one of many changes CEO Marissa Mayer has made since being hired last July.

But Van Pelt doesn't work for Yahoo.

She doesn't work for Google, Twitter, or any high-profile tech company. Instead, Van Pelt represents how the changes at Yahoo have gotten the attention of workers everywhere, regardless of industry.

"This is just ridiculous," she continued. "Glad I have no desire to work for Yahoo!"

A 2011 study by Telework Research Network found that working remotely increased 73% from 2005 to 2011 in the United States.

Parenting is not at the heart of the issue, despite expectations Mayer would be more flexible after the recent birth of her first child. In the thousands of social media posts made about Mayer's decision since Monday, people have attempted to classify the policy as a statement about everything from feminism to incompetent management.

On Tuesday Yahoo issued a short statement, saying "This isn't a broad industry view on working from home -- this is about what is right for Yahoo right now."

But two themes seem to anchor the discussion, and they center on debate about what it takes to create a truly innovate workplace -- something Yahoo needs -- and the role morale plays in productivity.

Opinion: CEO right -- Yahoo workers must show up

On innovation

Psychologist Eve Ash wrote for SmartCompany.com that, "The combined efforts of a group can provide quantum leaps in innovations."

Hired to essentially reinvent Yahoo, Mayer is clearly attempting to reignite the "spirit of collaboration."  In an opinion piece for CNN, Raymond Fisman said Mayer has it exactly right: Personal interaction is still the most effective way of conveying a company's direction. The assertion that new ideas spring up through "chance encounters" is backed by academic research, he says.

David Hirsch, who uses @startupman on Twitter, agrees. As a managing partner of Metamorphic.vc and a father of two, he says for every restart or start-up, real-time collaboration and strategy needs to happen "every 5 minutes."

"As a parent who occasionally works from home -- I feel bad for all those impacted," posted JD Fairweather. "As a consultant who has seen the challenges of managing remote workers and the complications of rebuilding a company -- it's the right move."

"Yahoo needs employees who want to live breathe and evangelize Yahoo," wrote tech blogger Shawn Farner. "The company needs employees in Sunnyvale, walking the halls, eating lunch with colleagues, brainstorming on whiteboards, gathering around monitors -- basically, doing the things you'd see a small start-up doing in companies that emphasize collaboration and comradery."

A work-at-home mom defends Mayer

On productivity

Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group, quickly posted his opposition to Mayer's policy, saying a big part of successfully working with other people depends on, "trusting people to get their work done wherever they are, without supervision."

Donald Trump tweeted that Mayer is right to expect Yahoo employees to come to the workplace. "She is doing a great job!"

Lynn Dang, a former IBM employee posted to Facebook that the policy is silly and short-sighted for three reasons. First, unproductive staff will be unproductive anywhere. Second, Yahoo now risks losing top performers, and third the policy speaks of control and distrust unlikely to boost morale and engagement.

"I do think team building and interaction are useful but it doesn't have to be an all or nothing approach like this," Dang posted. "Especially in 2013. Especially for a tech company."

In an article on HLNTV.com, Sarah Evans, owner of Sevans Strategy, a public relations consultancy, wrote that each year, $1.4 trillion is lost in productivity regardless of where a worker's desk is physically located.

"Finding a better way to work should be a company's priority -- not telling people where they can do said work," Evans said.

For Scott Jordan, the policy signaled a much greater issue, which is that Mayer and her team have not planned and deployed technology properly. "There should be no time when an employee is more than a couple of taps away," he posted to Google+.

Opinion: Allow Yahoo workers to work at home

@highlight

Yahoo's new policy will encourage innovation, some workers say

@highlight

Requiring workers to go to the office may hurt morale, others argue

@highlight

Working from home increased by 73% between 2005 and 2011, according to a study(CNN) -- An autopsy on comedian Joan Rivers has been completed, but more studies will be needed to determine the cause and manner of her death, New York City medical examiner's office spokeswoman Julie Bolcer said Friday.

Rivers, 81, died in a New York hospital Thursday afternoon, a week after suffering cardiac arrest during a medical procedure, her daughter said.

Rivers had been on life support at Manhattan's Mount Sinai hospital, where she was taken after she stopped breathing at the Yorkville Endoscopy clinic on August 28.

Joan Rivers: A pointed, pioneering comedian

Rivers was undergoing an apparently minor elective procedure at the clinic when she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest, according to the New York Fire Department.

Paramedics took her by ambulance to Mount Sinai Hospital, about a mile from the clinic, where she was initially listed in critical condition.

The outpatient clinic is now being investigated by the New York State Department of Health, spokesman James O'Hara said.

Joan Rivers: In her own words

No criminal investigations are currently under way in Rivers' death, according to several New York law enforcement officials. The state health department is investigating whether there was any malpractice by the doctors and their staff, the same officials said.

The Rivers family made very little information about her medical condition public, finally confirming Tuesday that she was on life support.

"My son and I would like to thank the doctors, nurses, and staff of Mount Sinai Hospital for the amazing care they provided for my mother," her daughter said. "Cooper and I have found ourselves humbled by the outpouring of love, support, and prayers we have received from around the world. They have been heard and appreciated.'

Melissa Rivers and her son Cooper have spent the past week by Rivers' hospital bedside, rushing there last Thursday when they learned of her illness.

"My mother's greatest joy in life was to make people laugh," Melissa Rivers said. "Although that is difficult to do right now, I know her final wish would be that we return to laughing soon."

Share your memories

The clinic has not responded to repeated calls from CNN about the state's investigation.

Yorkville Endoscopy's website says it is an "ambulatory surgical center" that has been "approved by the Department of Health." The description of its accreditations is blank.

"Yorkville Endoscopy is a state of the art facility, staffed by highly experienced endoscopists whose mission is to provide safe and compassionate care to patients and their families," the website says.

Tributes from Joan's friends

The funeral for Rivers will be at Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan on Sunday, according to temple spokeswoman Elizabeth Fezrine. Details, including the time and if the public will be allowed to attend, are not yet known, she said.

Tributes to Rivers and her long career included one from former first lady Nancy Reagan, whose close circle of friends included Rivers.

"Joan Rivers was not only a dear friend, but one of the kindest and funniest people I ever knew," Reagan said. "I doubt there's anyone who hasn't laughed at her or with her until they cried. Today our tears are those of sadness. I know I join millions in saying, 'Thanks for the good times Joan, we will truly miss you.' My love and deepest sympathy go to Melissa and Cooper."

Former CNN host Larry King knew Rivers for 45 years. "She knew no boundaries," King said. "Everything was funny to her. You couldn't really object because she took no prisoners."

Hollywood mourns a friend

Donald Trump, who chose her as the winner on a season of "Celebrity Apprentice," said Rivers "was stronger at the end than she was at the beginning. She had unbelievable stamina."

Ryan Seacrest, who worked with her on E! shows, called Rivers "a trailblazer in so many ways."

Liza Minnelli said Rivers was "my dear friend."

"I will miss her but I will always remember the laughter and friendship she brought into my life," Minnelli said.

Opinion: Joan Rivers gave misfit girls permission to dream

E! and NBCUniversal, producers of Rivers' TV show "Fashion Police," sent condolences to her family on "this incredibly sad day."

"For decades Joan has made people laugh, shattered glass ceilings and revolutionized comedy," the studio said.

"She was unapologetic and fiercely dedicated to entertaining all of us and has left an indelible mark on the people that worked with her and on her legions of fans.  She's been a much beloved member of the E! family for over 20 years and the world is less funny without her in it.  Today our hearts are heavy knowing Joan will not be bounding through the doors."

What Joan Rivers wanted at her funeral

People we've lost in 2014

See more about the people of comedy at CNN Comedy.

CNN's Marisa Marcellino, Susan Candiotti and Joan Yeam contributed to this report.

@highlight

Further studies needed to determine cause, manner of death

@highlight

Rivers, 81, was undergoing a procedure at clinic; she suffered cardiac and respiratory arrest

@highlight

Rivers had been on life support at Manhattan's Mount Sinai hospital(CNN) -- She's been a comedian, talk-show host and feared red carpet fashion critic. Now you can add winner of "The Celebrity Apprentice" to Joan Rivers' lengthy resume.

Donald Trump and Joan Rivers attend "The Celebrity Apprentice" season finale Sunday in New York.

After weeks of competition, the 75-year-old dynamo beat out 15 other contestants, including Dennis Rodman, Tom Green and Brian McKnight, to take the top spot in this season's edition of the reality show hosted by Donald Trump.

Rivers went up against poker champion Annie Duke in Sunday night's finale in which both women were charged with planning a VIP party and silent auction for the last and deciding task.

"They're both tough, they're both smart and they both hate each other," Trump observed at the beginning of the show.

The apparent tension between Rivers and Duke continued in the final boardroom, part of which played out in front of a live audience, with both finalists bickering and interrupting each other repeatedly as Trump looked on.

In the end, Duke raised far more money at her event, but Rivers was able to attract more celebrities and provide a better overall experience for the guests at her party, and Trump declared her the winner of the competition.

"Your level of energy has been amazing," he told Rivers.

The victory means $250,000 for Rivers' charity: God's Love We Deliver.

If the series thrives on conflict, it got plenty of mileage out of Rivers. She blew up at country singer Clint Black, referred to another contestant as a "stupid blonde" and smashed a champagne glass out of frustration at one point.

But Rivers seemed to be especially infuriated by Duke, calling her a "despicable human being" -- the tamest of the insults she hurled in Duke's direction over the course of the series.

Rivers even walked out in a huff after her daughter, and fellow contestant, Melissa was fired from the show. The exit, complete with bleeped obscenities, was turned into a cliffhanger of sorts when it seemed like Rivers might not come back, but she returned to the show for the next task.

You might think a show that's best known for the phrase "You're fired" might not do so well in a bad economy when thousands of people have heard similar words for real at their workplaces, but the series averaged more than 8 million viewers a week, according to Entertainment Weekly. EW: Did the right one win?

Revived formula

"The Apprentice" made a splash when it debuted in 2004, making a reality television star out of Trump and contestants such as Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth. For several seasons, the series took ambitious young mogul wannabes, divided them into teams and had them compete in tasks that ranged from selling lemonade to creating advertising campaigns for major corporations.

The contestants vied for the chance to run one of Trump's companies for a year, and Trump fired someone from the losing team each week until he selected an apprentice. Over the years, ratings for the show gradually declined, but the formula was revived in early 2008 with the first season of "The Celebrity Apprentice."

The tasks, pressure-cooker atmosphere and boardroom bickering stayed the same, but the competition now featured contestants with varying degrees of fame and focused on raising money for charity.

The first "Celebrity Apprentice" top spot went to Piers Morgan, the prickly judge on "Britain's Got Talent" who made news this spring when he invited singing sensation Susan Boyle to dinner after her memorable performance on the show.

Morgan also made several appearances on this season's "Apprentice," sitting in as Trump's "eyes and ears" during one episode and interviewing the final four candidates in another.

Morgan's aggressive questioning seemed to annoy the celebrities, especially Jesse James, who glared icily at Morgan when he kept asking him why he did not turn to his wife, Sandra Bullock, for help in raising money during the various tasks.

Perhaps Bullock might be tempted to try competing on the show herself.

NBC announced last month it is bringing back "The Celebrity Apprentice" for another installment in the spring of 2010, Entertainment Weekly reported.

@highlight

Joan Rivers wins this season's "Celebrity Apprentice"

@highlight

Rivers goes up against poker champion Annie Duke in finale

@highlight

Duke raises more money at her event, but Rivers is able to attract more celebrities

@highlight

The victory means $250,000 for Rivers' charityLos Angeles, California (CNN)   -- The sudden end to a legal battle between dethroned Miss California USA Carrie Prejean and pageant officials was prompted by the revelation of a "sex tape," according to a source familiar with the lawsuits' settlement.

Prejean was fired in June after lingerie-modeling photos of her emerged that pageant officials said were a breach of her contract. Prejean sued the pageant in August, arguing her firing was religious discrimination because of her opposition to same-sex marriage.

Pageant officials countersued last month, demanding their former beauty queen repay $5,200 in pageant money spent for her breast implants and give them all proceeds from a book she's written.

A settlement of both lawsuits was signed in New York Tuesday, but no details were made public. Lawyers and parties for each side were bound by a confidentiality pledge, according to the source.

The veil of secrecy was partially lifted Wednesday after celebrity gossip Web site TMZ reported the deal was sealed after pageant lawyers presented an "extremely graphic" home video involving Prejean.

TMZ Managing Editor Harvey Levin said during a webcast Wednesday that he obtained the Prejean video during the summer, but found it "too racy" to post on his site. He indicated Prejean was alone in the video.

The source with knowledge of the settlement talks told CNN those details were accurate.

Prejean's lawyer, Charles LiMandri, responded with a short statement issued through an employee at his law office. "It's a confidential settlement, and he can't discuss it," the statement said.

Several calls and e-mail to Prejean's publicist were not returned Wednesday.

Prejean's tell-all book hits bookstores next week, and she is scheduled for media interviews to promote it.

Pageant spokesman Kenn Henman said Tuesday the settlement means all lawsuit demands are dropped.

The pageant had claimed that the contract she signed when she entered their competition last year gave the pageant the rights to anything she wrote. The settlement ended that claim.

Pageant officials also dropped their attempt to be repaid for her breast enhancement, which was done before she represented California in the Miss USA competition, according to Henman.

Prejean, in exchange, withdrew her suit accusing the pageant of violating her privacy by confirming to reporters that her breasts were enhanced, Henman said.

"We are moving forward from the past and looking towards the crowning of two winners and the new look of the upcoming Miss California USA pageant, telecast live on November 22," pageant Executive Director Keith Lewis said Tuesday.

"We're back in the business of beauty," he told CNN.

There was nothing pretty about the public fight that began in April when Prejean, 22, stepped into controversy by declaring her opposition to same-sex marriage while answering a judge's question at the Miss USA pageant. Prejean finished as first runner-up.

While state and national pageant officials publicly supported her initially, their opinions eventually changed after she continued to make public statements about same-sex marriage.

She held onto her crown through May, despite a series of questionable photos that emerged on gossip Web sites. Those images showed a topless Prejean, photographed from behind.

She was dethroned in June by Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump amid growing complaints by state officials that she was uncooperative and not meeting her contractual obligations.

Prejean filed her lawsuit in Los Angeles County Superior Court in August, claiming that her firing was religious discrimination because of her stand against same-sex marriage.

The pageant's countercomplaint said what it called Prejean's belligerent behavior, lack of cooperation and contract breaches caused her firing, not her opposition to same-sex marriage.

@highlight

Carrie Prejean was dethroned as Miss California USA and sued pageant

@highlight

Source: "Extremely graphic" home video involving Prejean spurred suit settlement

@highlight

TMZ managing editor says he got video during summer but was "too racy" to post(CNN) -- At a security conference recently, the moderator asked the panel of distinguished cybersecurity leaders what their nightmare scenario was. The answers were the predictable array of large-scale attacks: against our communications infrastructure, against the power grid, against the financial system, in combination with a physical attack.

I didn't get to give my answer until the afternoon, which was: "My nightmare scenario is that people keep talking about their nightmare scenarios."

There's a certain blindness that comes from worst-case thinking. An extension of the precautionary principle, it involves imagining the worst possible outcome and then acting as if it were a certainty. It substitutes imagination for thinking, speculation for risk analysis and fear for reason. It fosters powerlessness and vulnerability and magnifies social paralysis. And it makes us more vulnerable to the effects of terrorism.

Worst-case thinking means generally bad decision making for several reasons. First, it's only half of the cost-benefit equation. Every decision has costs and benefits, risks and rewards. By speculating about what can possibly go wrong, and then acting as if that is likely to happen, worst-case thinking focuses only on the extreme but improbable risks and does a poor job at assessing outcomes.

Second, it's based on flawed logic. It begs the question by assuming that a proponent of an action must prove that the nightmare scenario is impossible.

Third, it can be used to support any position or its opposite. If we build a nuclear power plant, it could melt down. If we don't build it, we will run short of power and society will collapse into anarchy. If we allow flights near Iceland's volcanic ash, planes will crash and people will die. If we don't, organs won't arrive in time for transplant operations and people will die. If we don't invade Iraq, Saddam Hussein might use the nuclear weapons he might have. If we do, we might destabilize the Middle East, leading to widespread violence and death.

Of course, not all fears are equal. Those that we tend to exaggerate are more easily justified by worst-case thinking. So terrorism fears trump privacy fears, and almost everything else; technology is hard to understand and therefore scary; nuclear weapons are worse than conventional weapons; our children need to be protected at all costs; and annihilating the planet is bad. Basically, any fear that would make a good movie plot is amenable to worst-case thinking.

Fourth and finally, worst-case thinking validates ignorance. Instead of focusing on what we know, it focuses on what we don't know -- and what we can imagine.

Remember Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's quote? "Reports that say that something hasn't happened are always interesting to me, because as we know, there are known knowns; there are things we know we know. We also know there are known unknowns; that is to say we know there are some things we do not know. But there are also unknown unknowns -- the ones we don't know we don't know." And this: "the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence." Ignorance isn't a cause for doubt; when you can fill that ignorance with imagination, it can be a call to action.

Even worse, it can lead to hasty and dangerous acts. You can't wait for a smoking gun, so you act as if the gun is about to go off. Rather than making us safer, worst-case thinking has the potential to cause dangerous escalation.

The new undercurrent in this is that our society no longer has the ability to calculate probabilities. Risk assessment is devalued. Probabilistic thinking is repudiated in favor of "possibilistic thinking": Since we can't know what's likely to go wrong, let's speculate about what can possibly go wrong.

Worst-case thinking leads to bad decisions, bad systems design, and bad security. And we all have direct experience with its effects: airline security and the TSA, which we make fun of when we're not appalled that they're harassing 93-year-old women or keeping first-graders off airplanes. You can't be too careful!

Actually, you can. You can refuse to fly because of the possibility of plane crashes. You can lock your children in the house because of the possibility of child predators. You can eschew all contact with people because of the possibility of hurt. Steven Hawking wants to avoid trying to communicate with aliens because they might be hostile; does he want to turn off all the planet's television broadcasts because they're radiating into space? It isn't hard to parody worst-case thinking, and at its extreme it's a psychological condition.

Frank Furedi, a sociology professor at the University of Kent, writes: "Worst-case thinking encourages society to adopt fear as one of the dominant principles around which the public, the government and institutions should organize their life. It institutionalizes insecurity and fosters a mood of confusion and powerlessness. Through popularizing the belief that worst cases are normal, it incites people to feel defenseless and vulnerable to a wide range of future threats."

Even worse, it plays directly into the hands of terrorists, creating a population that is easily terrorized -- even by failed terrorist attacks like the Christmas Day underwear bomber and the Times Square SUV bomber.

When someone is proposing a change, the onus should be on them to justify it over the status quo. But worst case thinking is a way of looking at the world that exaggerates the rare and unusual and gives the rare much more credence than it deserves.

It isn't really a principle; it's a cheap trick to justify what you already believe. It lets lazy or biased people make what seem to be cogent arguments without understanding the whole issue. And when people don't need to refute counterarguments, there's no point in listening to them.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Bruce Schneier.

@highlight

Bruce Schneier says worst-case security planning focuses on unlikely as though it's certain

@highlight

He says it's a blunt intrument that distorts risk analysis, plays to terrorists, makes us fearful

@highlight

This, he says, leads to bad, dangerous decisions and policies that leave us vulnerable

@highlight

Schneier: It lets biased people make seemingly good arguments without understanding issue(CNN) -- Earlier this week it was reported that former NBA slam-dunk champion, Anthony "Spud" Webb was planning to become head coach of Rick Cabaret's New York Stripper team.

From the moment I read it I cracked up laughing, knowing full well that my longtime friend and golf buddy, who also happens to be president of basketball operations for the Texas Legends (an NBA D-League team) would never do such a thing, and the press release was a joke.

I even left him a voicemail Wednesday saying it was funny and ridiculous at the same time, and the next day his publicist released a statement calling it an "ill-fated attempt at humor."

No harm, no foul Spud, and anyone taking it seriously needs to really learn to laugh.

So when I began to see tweets Friday about the maniacal real estate mogul Donald Trump moderating a Republican presidential debate in Iowa on December 27, I had the same reaction as the Spud-strip team press release: this is a bad joke.

But according to the conservative website Newsmax.com, they really have asked Trump to be the moderator of a real GOP presidential debate, hoping the men and women who desire to be commander-in-chief will show up to be quizzed by a reality TV show star.

If this "debate" is real, it will represent one of the stupidest ideas in the history of presidential politics, and if the Republican National Committee has any decency, they would quickly denounce this madness and say none of its candidates will bother even responding to this stunt.

As I've written before, Donald Trump is a political chump who should not be taken seriously. To watch all of these GOP candidates make a pilgrimage to meet with him is ridiculous. It's not like he's disgraced former President Richard Nixon, who often hosted candidates wanting to discuss foreign policy, especially as it related to China. The only thing the late Nixon and Trump have in common is both are disgraceful.

It's time that real Republicans and conservatives put an end to this silly infatuation with Donald Trump. A question has been raised about whether he's actually a billionaire, and he's gone to court over the issue. His ideas about politics are about as useful as Flavor Flav's marital advice. And discussing the issue of character and the presidency would make Trump a laughingstock to the world.

But let's just call this what it is: a publicity stunt by Newsmax.com to gain more subscribers to its growing media empire and a chance for Trump to bask in the glow of being taken seriously by the candidates who want to occupy the White House.

If we have reduced the presidency of the United States to a reality show, we deserve to get our butts kicked economically by China, and we might as well let Russia become the world's biggest superpower.

Any candidate that would even consider showing up to take questions from Trump should have his or her head examined and summarily booted out of the race.

In fact, let's go ahead and let Trump moderate a debate. This will allow us to quickly narrow the field of candidates, "Survivor"-style. For every candidate that shows up to get quizzed by Trump, we would immediately vote them off the GOP presidential island. There is no way anyone could take them seriously.

Sorry, folks. Let's not even start with the idea of Trump moderating a Newsmax.com debate. I'd rather tune into strippers playing basketball than seeing the GOP presidential candidates stripped of their dignity.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Roland S. Martin.

@highlight

Conservative website Newsmax.com wants Trump to moderate a GOP debate

@highlight

Roland Martin calls this "one of the stupidest ideas in the history of presidential politics"

@highlight

Martin says the Republican National Committee should denounce this proposal(CNN) -- Comic and best-selling author Joy Behar appeared on CNN's "Larry King Live" Wednesday.

Joy Behar and her co-hosts on "The View" were recently named on the Time 100 most influential list.

"The View" co-host discussed a variety of topics, including the Miss California USA pageant, her feud with Donald Trump and Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin's political future.

The following is an edited version of the interview.

Larry King: It looks like Donald Trump has made up with Barbara (Walters). How are you and Donald now?

Joy Behar: You would not believe how friendly he was to me today at "The View." The man was all over me. First of all, in the green room after the show, he actually kissed me. I don't think that he kisses anybody. He came up to me and he actually kissed me and hugged me. It was weird.

King: Because he criticized you, as you know, in the past.

Behar: Well, he said that you hit me hard and so I went back at you. I don't remember even what I said. I made a joke about his hair, I think. But, you know, I'm done with that anyway. It's an old story. I'm not interested in his hair anymore, and we're fine.  Watch Behar dish »

King: What did you make of (the controversy with Miss California USA), Joy?

Behar: This Miss California girl, I think she's doing great. I mean who even thinks of Miss USA? Nobody even knows Miss USA exists.

She's got a great career ahead of her now, where everybody sees how gorgeous she is. She's winning the race, believe me, and with new boobs. Who can ask for anything more?

King: What do you think of the fact that your program made the (Time magazine) most influential list? View the list

Behar: That is my favorite, that we are on the most influential list. I never thought I would see this day. I just feel like good, now I can have some influence on Ahmadinejad, (Benjamin) Netanyahu. Maybe I can have some influence on the world.

King: Elizabeth Edwards, as we all know, is battling breast cancer, coping with the fallout of her husband's infidelity, selling a new book, too. What do you make of that whole situation, Joy?

Behar: You know, what is it with these political wives who love to stand by their men? I happen to like Elizabeth Edwards very much. She's been on the show and I've met her a couple of times. She's a really nice person, and he's a dog, you know?

Let's tell it like it is. He's a dog and people do not like him. I think his political career is over, and it's disappointing because he was a decent Democrat. He had his heart in the right place. He was a good liberal, and now he's out of the picture.

Although it didn't stop Newt Gingrich, who also told his wife he wanted a divorce when she was in the hospital. So, you know, bad taste, I guess, doesn't hurt all of their careers. So we never know what's going to happen to him. I just feel bad for her.

King: Let's move to another politician, Sarah Palin. What's your read on the governor?

Behar: Well, you know, they're talking about her as the new Republican Party. If that's what they want for their new Republican Party, that's fine -- somebody who doesn't believe in a woman's choice, someone who doesn't believe in evolution, someone who is,  you know, loves to hunt and kill animals or whatever. I don't know what her reasoning is.

Then fine. ... And doesn't really believe in global warming. She and Rush Limbaugh constantly are talking about how there's no problem.

I mean this guy, Rush Limbaugh, I used to work with him years ago, and I've sort of been friendly with him in a certain weird kind of way.

He constantly is talking about how there is no global warming. Every climatologist in the world says there's global warming. Every scientist has said there is a problem. We're all on this Earth together and this guy goes out and says that there's no global warming.

Who is he? What is he talking about and who are these ditto heads that agree with him, I'd like to know? Aren't they breathing the same air that we are?

King: Do you think Palin will be a presidential (candidate)? Do you think she's going to get up pretty close to getting that nomination?

Behar: Oh, I hope so. I would love to see that, because whoever is running against her, that's going to be, you know, a slam dunk, in my opinion. Because every time the woman is in an interview, she shows herself to be very, very shallow -- you know, as they say, stunningly superficial on another network. So, let her run. I hope she runs.

@highlight

"The View," co-hosted by Joy Behar, named to Time 100 most influential list

@highlight

Behar: Miss California USA has "great career" ahead of her

@highlight

Behar calls John Edwards "a dog" for his infidelity

@highlight

Behar says whoever runs against Sarah Palin would be "slam dunk"(CNN) -- Donald Trump, businessman and CEO of The Trump Organization, knows a little something about money.

Donald Trump says President Obama is trying to solve the nation's economic woes, but it's "trial and error."

Trump spoke with CNN's Larry King about whether there should be executive pay limits, if there should be a stimulus plan and when there could be an end to the economic downturn. The following is an edited portion of the interview.

Larry King: Is Obama right or wrong to go after these executives with salary caps?

Donald Trump: Well, I think he's absolutely right. Billions of dollars is being given to banks and others. You know, once you start using taxpayer money, it's a whole new game. So I absolutely think he's right.

King: What about the whole concept of bailouts?

Trump: Well, it's a little bit different. A lot of people are not in favor of bailouts. You know, we talked about all the different things going on in this country. Let's face it, Larry, we are in a depression.

If they didn't do the bailout, you would be in depression No. 2 and maybe just as big as depression No. 1, so they really had to do something. The problem is they're giving millions and billions of dollars to banks and the banks aren't loaning it.

If you are a prime customer of a bank and if you need 10 cents, you can't get it. The banks are out of business. They're not loaning. Now, billions of dollars has been given. They're supposed to be loaning out that money and they're using it for other purposes, so it is a real mess.

King:  If you were in the Senate, would you vote for the stimulus plan?

Trump: Well, I'd vote for a stimulus plan. I'm not sure that all of the things in there are appropriate. Some of the little toys that they have are not really appropriate, and they're a little surprising that they seem to want it, because the publicity on it has been terrible.

I would certainly vote for a stimulus, but I would really vote for banks having to loan out the money because they're not doing that.

King: In your adult career, have you ever seen it worse?

Trump: No, this is the worst ever. This is the worst I've ever seen. 1990 was a bad period of time, but this is far worse, and this is worse on a really global basis. I'm looking at different countries. Every country is bad. Now they're blaming us because of what happened. You know, why not blame the United States? But every country is in trouble.

King:  Can you put the blame anywhere?

Trump: Well, look, it's something that, to a certain extent, happens. You go up, you go down. You have recessions. If you just look at the charts over the period of 150 years, you've had good times (and) you've had bad times.

Certainly, there's been a lot of greed. There's been a lot of stupidity. You know, like I say, today the banks don't have money, they don't loan money. But if you went to a bank two years ago and you wanted a $300 million loan, they'd say 'No, we don't want to do that, but we'll give you $400 million,' so I guess, to a certain extent, that's part of the problem.

King:  If you had the power, if you could wield, what would you do?

Trump: Well, the biggest problem we have is it's trial and error, Larry. I mean we've never had anything like this before. It is absolute trial and error. They're trying. The new president is trying. Bush left him with a mess -- a total mess in many different ways. I really think he's doing the best he can, but it is trial and error.

They try something, if it works, great. If it doesn't work -- and the problem is you don't really know if it's going to work for quite some time. If it's really wrong -- and it could be wrong -- we're going to really have a mess in two years.

@highlight

Donald Trump says executives should have caps on their salaries

@highlight

Trump: 'We are in a depression'

@highlight

Banks are getting billions, but they aren't loaning money to people, Trump says

@highlight

Trump: Obama is "doing the best he can, but it is trial and error"(CNN) -- Can presidential candidates talk to voters like adults? Will voters support a candidate who tells them the truth? The answer to that question is obvious to anyone who has observed American politics in recent years.

One day -- let us hope it comes soon -- voters will demand that their political leaders present them with a more realistic sense of the possibilities and choices they face. But for now, voters demand perfect odds and simple solutions, and politicians oblige.

President Obama confessed as much in a recent Vanity Fair profile, when he revealed he knows that each one of the decisions he makes as president could turn out wrong. "Nothing comes to my desk that is perfectly solvable," he said. "Any given decision you make you'll wind up with a 30 to 40 percent chance that it isn't going to work." But the American public, the president suggested, cannot handle those odds. After you have made your decision, you need to feign total certainty about it.

Despite knowing this, Obama did not project that supreme confidence and simplified arguments in Wednesday's debate. Romney did. That was not the president's only problem, but it was one of the reasons he didn't fare well.

The frustration showed after the debate, when Obama accused Romney of blatant lying in a debate that, like both campaigns, has been rife with distortions. Both candidates twisted the facts. Romney did it to better effect. It's a tragedy for American democracy that the tactic works.

Four years ago, Obama betrayed no doubts that he would succeed in achieving highly ambitious promises. It's harder to speak in dreamy, inspirational platitudes when you've been president for four years, when the prose of real life has not caught up with the poetry of the campaign.

Politics: Mitt's middle of the road makeover

The American political system demands charisma, leadership and boundless optimism, even if they are artificial and hollow.

Some voters tell pollsters that a "strong leader" is one of the most important traits they look for in a candidate. And pollsters track the perception obsessively. But the prevailing idea of what a strong leader is has become manufactured and artificial.

Candidates have to sound self-assured and authoritative, in a version of leadership that resembles more the utterances of Donald Trump in "The Apprentice" than the wisdom of the great politician-philosophers who founded the country.

Real charisma allows leaders to change their mind. But that's different from reshaping your supposed ideology to win different audiences.

Intellectual and political honesty are not Etch-a-Sketch tricks. Romney's penchant for telling one audience one thing and then taking it back when it doesn't suit another audience -- as he just did with his infamous "47%" comments by saying he was "completely wrong" -- does not count as mettle.

In the debate, Obama slipped in his efforts to don that leadership mantle. He even acknowledged that some of the choices are a matter of odds, that the country is a laboratory and we can only hope the experiments will turn out well.

On the economy, he said, "Look, we've tried this; we've tried both approaches," comparing the Bush approach with the Clinton years. Obama took a step toward honesty with the public in suggesting that we can make only an educated guess as to what strategy is likely to work. "In some ways," he said, "we've got some data on which approach is more likely to create jobs and opportunity for Americans."

Evidence, "data." That's not a modern American politician's way of framing a decision. Americans like it when their leaders (and their pundits) are completely sure of what they propose, totally convinced it will work.

Politics: Bad debate, good fundraising and jobs report for the president

Some people believe this is the inevitable way of politics. But it doesn't have to be.

In other countries facing great problems such as high unemployment and shrinking economies, these days, "difficult choices" and uncertain outcomes are the centerpiece of political discussions. Voters are treated as intelligent, responsible adults who have to decide what is the most promising of unpalatable options.

Friday's unemployment figures seemed to support Obama's belief in his economic approach. But they don't erase the uncertainty ahead. In the end, we have competing philosophies for facing a world where countless unexpected challenges are sure to emerge.

It's true. An appearance of self-assurance creates a reassuring aura of competence and charisma. It makes people feel better. People are drawn to those who seem most sure of their ideas. But being more certain does not make you more right.

True charisma and leadership require acknowledging the uncertainties, recognizing the gaps in our knowledge. In the view of presidential scholar Michael Beschloss, they require the courage to tell difficult truths, to make unpopular decisions, to work with people who have different beliefs.

Following the current definition, Romney proclaims with absolute conviction, as he did during Wednesday night's debate, that "the private market and individual responsibility always works best." And he promises to bring 12 million new jobs while guaranteeing without a hint of doubt that if he is not elected, life will get worse, prices will go up, incomes will come down, and American will become weaker.

Opinion: Will improving economy sink Romney?

Four years ago, Obama made promises that today sound just, well, sad.

After his 2008 win in the Iowa caucuses, he told his exhilarated supporters that he would put an end to years of partisan bitterness and pettiness in Washington. He would be the president who would bring "Democrats and Republicans together to get the job done."

As a candidate, Obama could draw a dreamy vision. He would bring red and blue states back together, close down the prison at Guantanamo, fight climate change and genocide. His election, he said, would "mark the moment when the rise of the oceans began to slow and our planet began to heal." He even vowed to "reboot America's image in the Muslim world."

Instead, he tackled much greater problems than he had expected even when he exaggerated his competence. The economy, the world, they all proved more complex than the black and white choices of the election. Unemployment is still high. He has made little headway on the environment. Republicans and Democrats remain at each other's throats, and people in Muslims countries are still not fond of America or its president.

In the first debate, candidates again avoided talking about the need to make difficult choices. The talk was of tax cuts, not tax ("revenue" is the euphemism) increases. There are other areas where the choices are difficult and unappealing in foreign and domestic policy.

Voters may feel placidly satisfied when the candidates avoid mentioning the dangers ahead or the hard truths. But beneath the wishful thinking, Americans know that the world is complicated, the economy is challenging, the choices difficult.

Opinion: Romney's demographic bind

A candidate who tells voters he is 100% certain that the choices are clear and his plans will work out is lying, deluded or foolish.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Frida Ghitis.

@highlight

Frida Ghitis asks, Will voters support a presidential candidate who tells the truth?

@highlight

Ghitis: The answer is obvious; voters demand perfect odds and simple solutions

@highlight

She says Obama recently said he has to feign total certainty in his decisions

@highlight

Ghitis: True charisma and leadership require acknowledging uncertainties(CNN) -- "Happy Birthday: You're fired!"

No, that's not the catch phrase from a new reality show hosted by Donald Trump. It's worse than that -- assuming there could be something worse than a new Donald Trump reality show.

This statement is in essence what many Americans around the country hear each day because of legally mandated retirement age. Even though you may have been an outstanding worker the day before, because you are now one day older and have reached the retirement age limit, you are tossed in the waste bin.

Just so it's clear, age discrimination in most fields is prohibited by the Age Discrimination in Employment Act passed by Congress in 1967. This law protects workers between 40 and 70 from age discrimination.

The law was amended in 1986 to expand protections to workers over 70 years old. Fittingly, this extension was signed into law by then 75-year-old President Ronald Reagan, who remarked: "We take another important step by ensuring that the many individuals 70 years of age and older, who have valuable contributions to make, will now have the opportunity to do so."

The problem is that this law provides numerous exceptions that result in legally sanctioned age discrimination in various professions.

For example, federal air traffic controllers cannot be older than 30 when starting their employment and must retire by 56.

FBI agents can say, "Freeze FBI!" up until they are 57 years old. But then they have to turn in their FBI windbreaker. (The FBI director can extend an agent's service a few more years depending on circumstances.)

Airline pilots must leave the cockpit and became permanent passengers at 65 years of age. National Park rangers must retire at 57. And numerous state and local governments are able to mandate that firefighters and police officers be sent off to pasture at a certain age.

Sure, some of these professions involve a standard in physical competency, which was the rationale for the age limit. But every 57-year-old isn't the same. Nor is every 77-year-old. As opposed to blanket firings based on age, testing can easily be implemented to ensure that each individual is still capable of executing the tasks required of the job.

Mandatory age restrictions are not just limited to occupations that have a physical component. Judges in 33 states are required by law to retire between 70 and 75 years of age. A judge doesn't do much physically -- they put on a robe, walk to the bench, strike the gavel a few times -- done. Sure, every now and then they raise their voice when angry at a lawyer- being a former lawyer I can attest to being on the receiving end of their barbs -- but not much more.

For judges it's all about mental fitness. The good news is that 10 states are currently considering raising the mandatory retirement age, including New York where the issue is being discussed in the state's legislature this week.

Thankfully, life expectancy in the United States is an ever-improving proposition. It is now up to 78 years old, an increase of approximately eight years since the 1960s. If you want to see how long the U.S. government thinks you will live to the exact month, check out the creepy life expectancy calculator on the Social Security Administration's website.

A recent poll found that most Americans are delaying their retirement. It is now up to 61 from 57 years old in the 1990s. And non-retired workers plan to retire at 66, up from 60 in 1995.

Certainly, this can be attributed to the fact that some don't have the funds needed to retire earlier. But for many, it's that they are physically and mentally adept enough to keep working. I'm sure there are some people who love their jobs and want to work as long as possible.

Why shouldn't older Americans be able to work as long as they choose to as long as they are physically and mentally fit enough?

Legally mandated retirement ages don't make sense from a business point of view either. Why wouldn't employers want to retain older employees who have rich experiences and skills that are assets?

The concept that a person should be let go solely because of age is just as wrong as discrimination based on race, gender or ethnicity.

Plus, legally sanctioned age discrimination sends a horrible message that older workers are inherently less valuable than younger ones.

Changing perceptions about older workers will take time, but a great step forward would be for Congress to amend the Age Discrimination in Employment Act to make it clear that age discrimination in all professions will no longer be tolerated in the United States of America.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Each day, people hear the catch phrase, "Happy Birthday: You're fired!"

@highlight

Obeidallah: Despite age discrimination law, workers are let go because of their age

@highlight

He says mandatory retirement age doesn't make sense for people who are fit to do the job

@highlight

Obeidallah: Judges, for example, shouldn't have to retire so long as they are mentally agile(CNN) -- Nine women, a bold proposal and a $1 bill. That was what it took for women's tennis to begin a 40-year journey of self-empowerment that has created a generation of sporting millionaires.

Back in 1971, the total prize money on offer for the first women's tour was $309,000 spread over 19 tournaments.

In 2012, including the purse from the four grand slams, it cracked $100 million for the first time -- this year it is projected to hit $107 million.

"I forecast to the athletes in my first player meeting that we would get to $100 million in 2014. To be able to reach that milestone two years ahead of that is testament to the commercial success of women's tennis," says Stacey Allaster, who has been chief executive of the WTA since 2009.

When Serena Williams, the modern queen of the WTA Tour, won the U.S. Open last September her $2 million prize haul matched the entire career earnings of Billie Jean King -- one of the pioneering nine and a dedicated fighter in the cause of women's equality.

"I think they're truly proud of how far women's tennis has come from the $1 contract to the $100 million generation," Allaster told CNN.

"Meeting the original nine and spending time with them this past April in Charleston was inspirational.

"To hear their stories and what they had to go through to stand up to the establishment and take the risk for something they believed in was amazing."

King was one of the players frustrated by a lack of parity with the men's game in her era, when women struggled to find enough tournaments to play in -- let alone be paid on equal terms.

Defying the U.S. Tennis Association, she set up a rebel tour with the help of publisher Gladys Heldman, who proffered the symbolic $1 contracts for the players.

It was a schism that led to the formation of the establishment-approved Women's Tennis Association in 1973 -- which will be marked this year by the WTA's "40 Love" commemorative campaign, a celebration of four decades of progress in the women's game.

It was the start of a circuit that now covers the globe. This year's schedule began with simultaneous events in China, Australia and New Zealand, and will climax with the season-ending championships in Turkey in late October.

The 2012 Istanbul showpiece attracted the event's biggest crowds for 12 years, in a country not known for its tennis heritage, while China will host a fifth WTA tournament from 2014.

"We are obviously seeing extensive growth in our Asia-Pacific territory and in China. We are looking at how we take the next quantum leap," said Allaster.

"We are making sure that at the end of the day we have a circuit structure that can consistently deliver to our top events, because that's how we're going to drive the business, to deliver to sponsors and broadcasters."

And it is becoming a very big business.

King was the first woman to earn six figures in a season, back in 1971. Last year world No. 1 Victoria Azarenka and Williams both became the first to break the $7 million barrier.

In the men's game, only Novak Djokovic ($12.8 million) and Roger Federer ($8.6 million) earned more on court.

The brand of women's tennis has been driven by the WTA's "Strong is Beautiful" campaign, which depicts the players both as athletes and style icons -- along with celebrity endorsers such as singers Aretha Franklin and Kelly Rowland, actress Susan Sarandon and businessmen Donald Trump and Richard Branson (see pictures in the gallery above, courtesy the WTA Tour).

"We're marketing the players as the world's strongest female athletes," Allaster said. "We do have this duality of the off-court lifestyle and entertainment part of it, premium and glamorous. Strong confident women who have endured intense battles to be at the top of their game and be the best in the world."

While other women's sports, such as golf, have struggled to maintain lucrative sponsorships, tennis is bucking the trend.

"It is very important to stress that women, both in terms of prize money and in terms of commercial incomes in tennis and other sports, are the poor relations compared to men," says sports business expert Simon Chadwick.

"The women who earn significant revenue often fit a specific sociocultural stereotype."

Chadwick, professor of sport business strategy and marketing at Britain's Coventry University Business School, cites the examples of Maria Sharapova and Anna Kournikova -- Russians who capitalized on both their good looks and playing skills to become two of the most wealthy and high-profile women's players.

Chadwick says that while the gap between men's and women's pay is closing in tennis, the sport is also becoming more global -- which increases its value for sponsors and commercial partners.

"Further, I think female tennis player brands embody a particular set of qualities, such as strength, power, beauty, success, that some brands find appealing because it enables them to target specific consumer groups, thus strengthening perceptions of their brands -- for which corporations are prepared to pay," he told CNN.

"The fact that some of the recently successful players, such as Li Na, are from growing or strong economies, has been helpful in drawing in new revenue streams to the sport from sponsors and commercial partners that previously may not have had an involvement in tennis."

While Sharapova and the Williams sisters have their own off-court business empires, the WTA actively helps players establish their own brands.

"One of our competitive advantages is that we have so many compelling individual stories," Allaster said.

"Our team is there to help develop their brand plans. Some of them have agents who do that, others don't -- that's where the campaign helps. What's most important is that they be themselves."

The WTA Tour has not always been in such a healthy situation.

When Allaster joined in 2006, having made her name at Tennis Canada as a reviver of struggling tournaments, she faced a situation where players were complaining of burnout.

"We needed radical change. The bottom line was at the top tournaments players weren't consistently showing up, and that was impacting our credibility -- media were talking about it, sponsors were questioning 'are they really going to show?' " she said.

As part of its "Roadmap reform," the WTA cut the number of top-level events players had to enter from 26 to 20. It's now 22, and prize money is up 51%.

"We had grown and grown and grown, there was no shortage of people wanting to do WTA tournaments -- if anyone raised a hand, we said come on. But there's only so many top-10 players," Allaster said.

"The intensity of their play through that period just escalated and their bodies were breaking down. We knew we had a commitment system that couldn't work."

In the 1990s the women's game was invaded by girls in their early teens, such as Martina Hingis and Kournikova, whose stars burned brightly but comparatively briefly.

More recently top players such as Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin retired twice each before they were 30. Both battled with injuries at the end of their careers.

In view of these issues, the WTA's emphasis is now on prolonging the careers of marquee players such as the Williams sisters.

Both have been selective about their playing schedule as they have battled back from injuries and serious illnesses, though Serena has not opted out of the tournament commitment system -- which, under WTA rules, she could do as a top-10 player over the age of 30.

"We've been able to take the average career length from 12 years to now 15 years. I'd rather have 15 years of a superstar than a couple of great years then injured," Allaster said.

"Both Serena and Venus are a gift to women's tennis. Venus is thinking long term and I know Serena is, along with others."

The WTA's pressing business goal is to find a replacement for main sponsor Sony, which concluded an eight-year partnership at the end of 2012.

"We'll get through that. I'd like to have it for 2013 but usually a sales cycle for a global multimillion-dollar sponsorship is 18-24 months, and we are 10 months into this," Allaster said.

And if there is ever any hint of complacency about continuing the WTA's success, Allaster will remind the players of the words of that pioneering nine.

"They're proud of women's tennis and proud of our success. A couple of them looked at me poignantly and said 'Don't let them catch us.' We didn't work this hard for women's tennis not to be No. 1."

@highlight

Prize money on offer to women's tennis stars will be higher than ever in 2013

@highlight

The tour has grown from a $300,000 purse in 1971 to $107 million this year

@highlight

Ruling body the WTA is celebrating its 40th year of existence in 2013

@highlight

Current CEO Stacey Allaster has led an overhaul of circuit since joining WTA in 2006Washington (CNN) -- A woman on the wrong end of a love triangle received a measure of support from the Supreme Court on Tuesday in an unusual case involving a domestic dispute, global agreements and local sovereignty.

At issue is whether Congress may criminalize conduct -- under its treaty ratification power -- that is otherwise the domain of the states. Carol Anne Bond was given a long prison sentence in the federal system after being convicted of violating an international agreement on the use of chemical weapons. She would have gotten a much shorter sentence under state law.

The case of toxic love has soap-opera elements, but Bond's lawyers argued she was being treated like a foreign terrorist instead of someone caught up in a domestic dispute.

Beyond this fact-specific dispute, the case touches on larger concerns about the strength and purpose of the Constitution's 10th Amendment, designed to preserve state power. It is also a question roiling the current political debate, especially among tea party conservatives in this post-9/11, security-conscious environment.

The justices are using this case to explore the limits of congressional and presidential authority, with timely, far-reaching implications.

"It would be deeply ironic that we have expended so much energy criticizing Syria," for its government's alleged use of chemical weapons in an ongoing civil war, said Justice Sonia Sotomayor, "when if this court were now to declare that our joining or creating legislation to implement the treaty was unconstitutional. We're putting aside the impact that we could have on foreign relations."

Professor accused of poisoning wife

"I just would like a fairly precise answer whether there are or are not limitations on what Congress can do with respect to the police power," Chief Justice John Roberts asked of the Obama administration's top lawyer. "If their authority is asserted under a treaty, is their power to intrude upon the police power unlimited?"

Bond, a native of Barbados, lived outside Philadelphia and worked as a microbiologist. As a federal appeals court succinctly summarized the relevant facts in the case: "Bond was excited when her closest friend, Myrlinda Haynes, announced she was pregnant. Bond's excitement turned to rage when she learned that her husband, Clifford Bond, was the child's father. She vowed revenge."

The woman, known to her family as Betty, struck back by stealing dangerous a chemical -- arsenic-based 10-chloro-10H-phenoxarsine -- from her company. She also obtained potassium dichromate over the Internet. Both substances in heavy doses can cause toxic, even lethal harm with very little physical contact.

The 42-year-old then tried to poison Haynes some two dozen times over several months, secretly sprinkling small amounts of the chemicals on an apartment doorknob, car door handles, and a mailbox.

While suffering no more than a chemical burn on her thumb, Haynes grew suspicious -- one of the chemicals was a bright orange powder. After getting little help from local police, in 2007 she called postal inspectors, who set up surveillance cameras. Bond was videotaped stealing mail and placing chemicals inside the mailbox and a car muffler, court records show. She was soon arrested.

Bond admitted her guilt early on and claimed she never meant to kill Haynes, but only wanted to cause her "an uncomfortable rash." The defendant also said her friend's betrayal caused an "emotional breakdown" that made her respond in such a shocking fashion.

Instead of being charged with simple assault, which may have gotten her six months to a year or two in state prison, Bond was indicted in federal court on two counts of mail fraud and -- the bombshell -- two counts of violating a federal law and international treaty on the possession and use of "chemical weapons."

When a judge denied her motions to transfer the case to state court, Bond pleaded guilty and immediately appealed. She received a sentence of six years behind bars and nearly $12,000 in fines and restitution. She was released in August 2012.

Did Utah doctor kill his wife?

During Tuesday's lively hour of arguments, Bond's lawyer, Paul Clement, called the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Act an "odd statute" that clearly exceeds congressional authority. He said the treaty was designed to deal with "warlike" behavior, not "ordinary" poisoning cases.

"I don't think that nation-states poison romantic rivals, attempt to commit suicide, or try to get rodents out of their houses" using chemicals that might have everyday non-criminal uses, he said, like vinegar.

Justice Elena Kagan was unconvinced. "You are imagining a world in which judges day-to-day try to get inside the head of treaty makers," where judges might say: "We understand that there's a national interest in regulating sarin gas, but we don't think that there's a sufficient interest in regulating some other chemical down the line. It seems to me a completely indeterminate test" for judges to delineate "what is in the national and international interest."

Solicitor General Donald Verrilli agreed, defending the treaty and law by saying, "There can't be a 'too local' exception to the treaty power."

The Justice Department says federal law broadly prohibits a person from knowingly using a chemical weapon in a way that can "cause death, temporary incapacitation, or permanent harm" to another person, which prosecutors said Bond admittedly did.

Verrilli dismissed a "parade of horribles"-- hypothetical suggestions that a sweeping treaty could be authorized giving the federal government complete police power over the states.

"It seems unimaginable that a convention of that kind would be ratified by two-thirds of the Senate, which it would have to be," he said.

"It also seems unimaginable that you would bring this prosecution," against Bond, said Justice Anthony Kennedy. "But let's leave it at that." The remark brought laughter in the courtroom, but Kennedy clearly was not joking.

Test your knowledge of the U.S. Supreme Court

Justice Antonin Scalia used the issue to delve into another controversial issue.

"Let's assume that an international treaty is approved by two-thirds of the Senate and the President, which requires states to approve same-sex marriage. All right?" he said. "Now, if that were a self-executing treaty, same sex marriage would have to be approved by every state. If it is not self-executing, however, it will be up to Congress to produce that result, and Congress would do it by having a federal marriage law."

The conservative Scalia said to do so would be "dragging the Congress into areas where it has never been before."

"If you told ordinary people that you were going to prosecute Ms. Bond for using a chemical weapon, they would be flabbergasted," said Justice Samuel Alito. "This statute has an enormous breadth -- anything that can cause death or injury to a person or an animal. Would it shock you if I told you that a few days ago my wife and I distributed toxic chemicals to a great number of children? On Halloween we gave them chocolate bars. Chocolate is poison to dogs, so it's a toxic chemical under the chemical weapons convention." Again there was audience laughter, but no smiles from the bench.

Justice Stephen Breyer also worried about the scope of federal power.

"In principle your position constitutionally would allow the President and the Senate, not the House, to do anything through a treaty that is not specifically within the prohibitions of the rights protections of the Constitution," he told Verrilli, citing a 1920 high court precedent giving Congress the power to enact treaties, even if it steps outside its traditional constitutional authority by usurping state laws. "And I doubt that in that document the Framers (of the Constitution) intended to allow the President and the Senate to do anything."

"I am worried about that and I think others are, too," the left-leaning Breyer added.

Among those attending the arguments was former Justice Sandra Day O'Connor.

Justices prepare for hot-button cases - and hot internal rhetoric

There are about a thousand treaties signed by the United States currently on the books.

Many academics and lawmakers hope the majority right-leaning bench will use this opportunity to delve further into the scope of the 10th Amendment, which states, "The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people."

In the broader political context, a bipartisan sphere of Americans worry the federal government and Congress have been overly aggressive in staking claims to disputes they believe are best left to states, especially in the criminal arena.

And it is not just felonies. Areas like gun ownership, zoning laws, environmental regulations, taxation, health care, and education standards all could be re-examined in the wake of this high court decision.

Some of Bond's supporters argue that some federal prosecutions are novel and the penalties are often more harsh, creating conflict and confusion with local efforts to ensure public safety. They see Bond as an unexpected hero in the fight to return "the power back to the people."

"The proposition that the Treaty Clause is a trump card that defeats all of the remaining structural limitations on the federal government is not a proposition that is logically defensible." Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said last week.

Bond had won an earlier Supreme Court appeal, with a unanimous ruling she had "standing," or legal authority, to pursue her claims in the courts. That allowed her to continue trying to have her federal conviction tossed out, which is the current issue before the justices.

Her lawyers say she had been trying in recent years to repair her shaken marriage, and has come to terms with her husband's betrayal.

The case is Bond v. U.S. (12-158). A ruling is expected by the spring.

@highlight

Carol Anne Bond is challenging her conviction on a federal chemical weapon charge

@highlight

She used poisons to try to get back at a woman who had an affair with Bond's husband

@highlight

She received a measure of support from the Supreme Court during oral arguments Tuesday

@highlight

The case touches on the conflict between federal and state powers in the 10th AmendmentWashington (CNN)The 2016 calculations of three potential candidates -- two Republicans and a very senior Democrat -- plus big tests for President Obama and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell filled our Sunday trip around the "Inside Politics" table.

Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida skipped the big weekend GOP gathering in Iowa, and some believe Jeb Bush's presumed candidacy makes it hard for Rubio to find his 2016 footing.

But Jonathan Martin of The New York Times shared reporting on how Rubio is still very interested in running, and hopeful that perhaps the interest from Mitt Romney offers him a new place in the growing GOP field.

"One of the things that is really keeping him intrigued by this race is the possibility that Mitt Romney will run," said Martin. "If you have a Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney scenario, that could open up a door for Rubio because it divides the center right and also it makes Rubio look more conservative, less establishment."

No offense to TV anchors, but what a politician says during a morning show interview may not tell you as much as what he or she says -- or doesn't say -- once the camera stops rolling.

A case in point just might be Vice President Joe Biden, who told ABC News the other day he is still thinking about another run for president in 2016, notwithstanding polls showing Hillary Clinton with an overwhelming advantage among Democrats.

The Atlantic's Molly Ball, however, says she went looking for evidence the VP is doing the work necessary to actually run and, well, she's still looking.

"So I talked to some well-placed Democrats in Iowa who would be hearing from him if he were serious about this, because that's what he would be doing," said Ball. "They haven't got the call saying, 'Hey, do me a favor, keep your powder dry.' So all the signs out there -- this is the time when he would need to be reaching out to those people that he's known for a long time, and they're not hearing from Joe Biden."

The emails started midafternoon and kept coming into the evening.

"Palin?" was all one said. "Do your people there think she is serious?" was part of another.

When Donald Trump told Iowa Republicans he is seriously thinking about a 2016 run, serious Republican operatives just laughed. Again. The way they did when Trump said the same early in the 2012 cycle. Or the 2008 cycle.

Most also think Palin, like The Donald, just likes the attention and wants to keep her name in the mix but isn't really serious about running.

But, unlike their reaction to Trump, many GOP operatives take a minute, or three, to consider the impact Palin could have if she actually did run. Again, that's highly unlikely -- but it would be wrong to "misunderestimate" her potential in Iowa.

Imagine a field of Palin, Ted Cruz, Mike Huckabee, Rick Santorum, Ben Carson and others competing for tea party and evangelical voters. Iowa doesn't pick nominees, but it does winnow the field -- and the competition on the right in the GOP Class of 2016 is already intense.

New Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell promised he would run things differently -- and it's true that in the first big debate of his tenure, there has been a more free-flowing debate and more amendments.

But McConnell apparently didn't mean limitless free debate, and his moves late last week to shut down debate on some Keystone XL amendments annoyed some Democrats -- including some the GOP leader needs on his side to pass his bill.

So Ed O'Keefe of The Washington Post took us inside the Senate as we wait to see whether McConnell can get his first legislative priority to the finish line.

"Expect to see Republicans allow for a few more (debates on amendments), at least this week, partly because the moderate Democrats, that Republicans are going to need to pass this bill, expressed some displeasure about it over the weekend," said O'Keefe. "There's some concern that if they get upset, either they part ways on this bill or they won't be there in the future."

One ask in President Obama's State of the Union address was for Congress to authorize the military campaign under way against ISIS targets in the Middle East.

It was a jarring moment if you recall how Barack Obama broke out in 2008 by being the candidate who opposed the Iraq war and wanted to get the U.S. out of Iraq and Afghanistan. Just watching him ask for authorization of military force was a reminder the world has not unfolded as Obama had hoped.

Julie Hirschfeld Davis of The New York Times shared reporting about whether the President's request was an important shift in administration thinking.

"Some people think he goofed a little when he said we need that authority. That's actually a change in position for him," said Hirschfeld Davis. "But now he really wants Congress to give him some legislation that would authorize that fight. Internally in the White House, the discussions are really heating up about what that should look like. They're anticipating quite a fight on Capitol Hill both with Republicans and Democrats."

@highlight

Why Rubio is excited about a potential Romney run

@highlight

2016 tea leaves: Biden's not in touch with top Democrats in Iowa

@highlight

The impact of a Palin candidacy on a crowded conservative field(CNN) -- If the congressional "super committee" does not reach a deficit reduction deal by Wednesday's legally mandated deadline, I propose we take a page from the NBA owners and lock Congress out.

I'm serious. We, the taxpayers, are the owners of Congress and if Congress won't make a deal that helps our nation, then let's put a big padlock on the doors of the House and Senate -- or at least change the locks and not give them the keys.

Polls show that me and apparently 91% of my fellow Americans have never been more frustrated with the dysfunctional nature of "our" Congress. Congress' approval rating has fallen to an abysmal 9% -- to put this in perspective, herpes is now slightly more popular than Congress. Bed bugs really can't be that far behind.

I'm not sure who the 9% of voters are who think Congress is doing a good job -- I can only assume it's Congress' friends and families as well as some of the well-connected lobbyists who have reaped benefits.

Maybe the 9% are those pleased when Congress made history in August after waiting until the last minute to compromise on a budget deal, which led to the first downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by Standard & Poor's.

Or possibly the 9% were impressed when House Democrats and Republicans joined together in a rare moment of bipartisanship a few weeks ago and voted in favor of a resolution by a whopping 396-9.

Was this vote to create jobs for the more than 25 million Americans who are unemployed or underemployed? Or maybe this vote was to help Americans on the brink of foreclosure?

Nope, this vote was to address an issue that Congress felt demanded immediate attention: Affirming that our national motto is: "In God We Trust."

Wow, that should really put some food on the table of a hungry family whose unemployment benefits are close to expiring. I hope you take the time to "thank" Rep. J. Randy Forbes, a Republican from Virginia, for leading the courageous charge on that issue.

Instead of a congressional lock out, perhaps Donald Trump could host a new TV show entitled: "Congressional Apprentice," where each week members of Congress are given a task to help our nation. Those who fail will be met by Trump gleefully declaring: "Congressman ... You're fired!"

I'm at the point that when I hear about a king in a foreign nation dissolving the legislature in his country, I almost wish our president could do the same.

Despite all its negatives, Congress can take credit for one positive achievement: Inspiring more Americans to become engaged in politics as witnessed by both the rise of the Occupy movement and the tea party movement. Congress' failures have awakened both the left and the right of the American electorate.

I hope that both the Occupy and tea party groups (and everyone else in the middle) can agree on a concrete change to our electoral system, namely: Term limits for Congress. Even though Congress' approval rating had fallen to 21% at the time of the November 2010 congressional mid-term elections, the inherent advantages of incumbency for members of Congress are so powerful that still 87% of incumbents in the House and 90% in the Senate won re-election.

Term limits would mandate a turnover in the composition of Congress so that federal elected officials no longer focus on political concerns and making a career out of serving in Congress but instead on enacting legislation that benefits all Americans in the short time they will serve.

Term limits are the only way to ensure meaningful change of our Congress. But that won't be easy. To impose congressional term limits, the U.S. Constitution must be amended -- just as it was with the 22nd amendment, which set a term limit for our president. The problem is that absent a constitutional convention, the only way to start the process for a Constitutional amendment is that Congress -- the people with a 9% approval rating -- have to pass it by a two-thirds vote in each chamber before it can be sent for the required approval by three-fourths of the state legislatures.

Good luck getting Congress to agree on that.

Our best and most practical hope is asking candidates running for Congress to make a personal pledge to limits of two terms in the Senate and three in the House.

Congress, though, still has a chance to atone for its mistakes. It's like at the end of the holiday classic, "The Christmas Carol" when Ebenezer Scrooge awoke on Christmas morning, and after realizing he still had a chance to redeem himself, joyfully declared: "I haven't missed it. "

Well, Congress, you have almost missed it. While we don't have three ghosts to warn you, we do have hundreds of millions of Americans sending you a message: Stop the political posturing, make a deficit reduction deal and then work together to revive our nation's economy.

If not, there are numerous locksmiths in the Washington area who promise that they can change locks within 15 minutes.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Congress looks unlikely to reach a deficit reduction deal by deadline

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Follow NBA owners' example and lock out members of Congress

@highlight

The only way to force dramatic change is to limit congressional terms, he says

@highlight

Obeidallah: Stop political posturing, make a deal and revive nation's economy(CNN) -- In these difficult economic times, it seems almost obscene that 60 men will be battling for a share of $15 million this weekend.

But the fact that they can, especially somewhere as hard-hit by the financial downturn as Dubai, is testament to the glowing health of golf's European Tour.

The Dubai World Championship, the climax to the money-spinning Race to Dubai, is the last tournament before the tour begins its 40th year of existence.

It has grown from an entirely Europe-based circuit of 20 events to an almost worldwide phenomenon which also takes many of the sport's top players to Africa, the Middle East and Asia.

In 1972 the total prize pool was the equivalent of €350,000 ($470,000) but it has mushroomed to more than €132 million ($178 million) spread across 52 tournaments and 29 destinations -- driving exposure levels with its ever-growing television unit.

Tiger holds no terror for golf's new stars

"I think the whole principle of having your own players playing on your own golf courses televised by your own television companies has remained the coherent goal," chief executive George O'Grady told CNN from the emirate.

"We've moved the tour from a good promotional outfit into a solid operating business, and we can dictate or lead the way the game should be rather than always responding to the wishes of our sponsors.

"We listen to our commercial sponsors, obviously, and the TV companies, but we decide the direction we want the sport to go in."

A new world order

When the Dubai event and rebranding for the tour's traditional Order of Merit money list was announced in late 2007, it was trumpeted as the biggest prize in golf -- worth $10 million plus the same in bonuses.

It was soon downsized to a $7.5 million tournament and that amount again in extras due to Dubai's well-documented debt problems, and the initial five-year agreement -- which was reduced to three -- is about to end.

O'Grady told CNN he was confident a new deal to keep the event in the emirate will be announced before Sunday's winner is crowned.

"We're looking at a way to keep it in Dubai if we possibly can," the 62-year-old said. "It's a perfect geographical location to finish our calendar year."

The Race to Dubai rebranding has helped the European Tour become a bona fide rival to its U.S. PGA counterpart, which has a $10 million jackpot of its own in the FedEx Cup series and still pulls in the most sponsorship.

"When we were the Volvo Tour with the Volvo Order of Merit, we united Europe on the European stage. This unites the European Tour on the global stage, and we finish in a place that is readily accessible from most of the countries we visit," O'Grady said.

European success story

Whether world No. 1 Luke Donald makes history by becoming the first player to win the European and U.S. money lists in one season, or Rory McIlroy overhauls his fellow British star, 2011 has been another bumper year for European golf.

Three of the season's four major titles were won by tour members, while Donald won one of the four World Golf Championship events and also tied for second, and Germany's Martin Kaymer triumphed at another.

O'Grady is happy with the progress made since he took over in 2005, having helped launch the tour's commercial arm in 1984 and developed the television broadcasting side.

Rights for the PGA Tour are fought over by three U.S. TV stations, but the European Tour's market is a lot more widespread.

Top tips from one of golf's best coaches

"We really grew it enormously when satellite channels began concentrating on sports, Sky specifically in the UK. Before that we had to own production ourselves otherwise we were always at the mercy of the BBC or TV in Spain, and it's a very difficult sport to televise," he said.

"Now our company televises more hours of tournament golf than anybody else in the world, and also at a lot of different times -- you've got to provide a service for 24-hour golf channels in Spain and France, then Korean television is very demanding and you've got India. It's an absolutely key part of our operation."

Alongside the main circuit, the second-tier Challenge Tour has almost €5 million in prize money while the Senior Tour offers more than €9 million.

O'Grady said what was once considered the main challenge -- of producing future stars to maintain the sport's profile -- has already been addressed.

"The current success of the European Tour is really a pat on the back for everyone involved in golf in Europe, from the amateur clubs to the coaches to people who devote their time to bringing new people into the game. There's no shortage of people wanting to become professionals," he said.

Olympic ambitions

And while growth has come from spreading to all corners of the globe, there is still a big focus on concentrating on the traditional heartlands of Britain, Spain and France -- which will host the prestigious Ryder Cup teams event in 2018.

Eastern Europe is still a largely untapped market, and the return of golf to the list of Olympic sports from 2016 could spark further expansion.

"It has given it a higher profile in developing markets where the Olympic ideal remains so strong," O'Grady said. "There's a huge number of new golf courses now in China since it became an Olympic sport, and the same with South America."

Unrest in the Middle East did lead to Bahrain losing the Volvo Golf Champions event, which will be held in South Africa next year, but O'Grady believes that golf has a big role to play in such countries.

"Golf is such a force for good and opens the doors in countries you go to, where it becomes more accessible to the local population. There's increasing accessibility. It can't all be done overnight, so you've got to make inroads."

O'Grady's goals

Players past and present serve on the tour's board and tournament committee, and O'Grady believes he has the support to continue in his role for the next few years at least.

His wife suffers from multiple sclerosis and needs 24-hour care after suffering a brain haemorrhage two years ago, so the father of two has to balance his time spent away on golf business.

"I've had a lot to do with golf going to the Olympics, and I'd quite like to be around when it first happens. And I'd quite like to see the next Ryder Cup on Continental soil," he said.

"That will probably see me through. If you're doing what you enjoy and you're making a difference and the players are very happy with me ... if the players have had enough then I'd be off tomorrow.

"Talking to them here, to a man they all seemed remarkably positive and onside -- and you'd think they would be for the kind of money they're playing for!"

@highlight

European Tour season ends this weekend with the big-money Race to Dubai finale

@highlight

Chief executive George O'Grady hopeful a new deal will extend Dubai's involvement

@highlight

The European Tour has grown into a worldwide circuit since its birth in 1972

@highlight

O'Grady is looking forward to golf's long-awaited return to the Olympics in 2016(CNN) -- It's best not to monkey around with Donald Trump -- or maybe that's a bad choice of words.

The billionaire real estate mogul is suing millionaire comedian Bill Maher for $5 million.

Why?

Because Maher said -- in jest, as comedians are wont to do -- that he would donate $5 million to a charity if Trump could prove he wasn't the "the spawn of his mother having sex with an orangutan."

"I'm not saying it's true," Maher told Jay Leno on "The Tonight Show" last month.

"I hope it's not true, but unless he comes up with proof ... I'm willing to offer $5 million to Donald Trump that he can donate to a charity of his choice -- Hair Club for Men; The Institute for Incorrigible Douche-bag-ery. Whatever charity."

Opinion: Hijacking the media -- Trump shows how easy it is

Maher picked the figure after Trump, long a skeptic of President Barack Obama's citizenship, offered to give $5 million to the charity of Obama's choice if the president publicly released his college transcripts in addition to his passport records ahead of last year's elections.

The White House never directly responded to the challenge.

Trump says he provided Maher with a New York birth certificate that proved he didn't descend from an ape -- but Maher hasn't paid up.

Trump filed the lawsuit in Los Angeles on Monday.

Included in the court documents are a January 8 letter to Maher, accepting the $5 million charity challenge the day after his appearance on Leno, and a copy of Trump's birth certificate, which lists Fred Trump as his father -- not an orangutan.

It's a free-swinging smackdown by two men used to speaking their minds and not backing down.

Maher, never afraid to ape the object of his pithy humor, was unrelenting on "The Tonight Show" in pushing the simian connection.

"The color of his hair (pauses for laughs) and the color of an orange orangutan is the only two things in nature of the same color," Maher said to another round of nervous chuckles from the audience.

The comedian's reaction to the lawsuit?

"What?? Really? Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha," he tweeted.

Perhaps, he is waiting for Trump to release his long-form birth certificate.

@highlight

Bill Maher suggests Donald Trump's mom mated with an orangutan

@highlight

The comedian offers $5 million for Trump to prove otherwise

@highlight

Trump's birth certificate shows Fred Trump as his father

@highlight

Trump sues asking Maher to pay upThis week, the U.S. Navy forsook a tradition dating back to the 1800s. Why? Because it's now too easily confused with the musings of an Internet lunatic.

Naval commanders this week announced that they would be getting rid of a rule that all official communications should be in all-caps.

It's a tradition dating to the 1850s, when the military used teletype machines that didn't have lowercase letters. The change is meant to simplify communication and is supposed to save the Navy $15 million because it can get rid of a dedicated messaging service and use regular old e-mail instead.

But we have to think not wanting to sound like you're shouting at someone who SAID SOMETHING WRONG ON THE INTERNET played a role, too.

The most gentle message can come across as psychotically aggressive when typed in all caps. So as the Navy transitions, we decided to round up five of our favorite examples of all-cap craziness.

The Kanye mea culpa

Perhaps it's not a rant, as such. (Though he's certainly been no stranger to them).

But we had to go with the time Kanye West slammed down the caps lock to apologize, on his blog, for his infamous stage-bombing of Taylor Swift at the 2009 Video Music Awards.

"I'M SOOOOO SORRY TO TAYLOR SWIFT AND HER FANS AND HER MOM. I SPOKE TO HER MOTHER RIGHT AFTER AND SHE SAID THE SAME THING MY MOTHER WOULD'VE SAID. SHE IS VERY TALENTED! I LIKE THE LYRICS ABOUT BEING A CHEERLEADER AND SHE'S IN THE BLEACHERS! ........................ I'M IN THE WRONG FOR GOING ON STAGE AND TAKING AWAY FROM HER MOMENT!................."

Of course, in the grand tradition of half-apologies, he spends several of his remaining loud sentences justifying the moment he interrupted Swift's acceptance speech to say that Beyonce should have won instead of her.

"BEYONCE'S VIDEO WAS THE BEST OF THIS DECADE!!!! I... WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD!!!! EVERYBODY WANNA BOOOOO ME BUT I'M A FAN OF REAL POP CULTURE!!! ... I'M STILL HAPPY FOR TAYLOR!!!! BOOOYAAAWWWW!!!! YOU ARE VERY VERY TALENTED!!! ...  I'M NOT CRAZY YALL, I'M JUST REAL."

Gotcha.

The Bakery flame-out

Having your restaurant appear on "Gordon Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares" is bad enough. Having the host quit on you because you're too hard to work with is even worse.

Flaming out about it on Facebook in a series of profanity-laced all-caps outbursts? Priceless.

Amy's Baking Company, in Scottsdale, Arizona, experienced just that last month after appearing on the show with the famously acerbic chef. So, after the show aired, the smart thing to do would be to take to social media to calmly explain how your restaurant was misrepresented, right?

Or, you can try this:

"WE DO NOT NEED THIS. YOU STUPID PEOPLE. ... DO NOT BLAME US BECAUSE YOU CAN NOT AFFORD QUALITY. THE YELPERS, AND NOW THE REDDITS, NEED TO BACK OFF. YOURE NOT RIGHT BECAUSE OF SOME TV SHOW."

A Facebook freakout? Wrong you are, apparently:

"WE ARE NOT FREAKING OUT WE DO NOT CARE ABOUT A 'WITCH HUNT' I AM NOT A WITCH. I AM GODS CHILD. P--- OFF ALL OF YOU. F--- REDDITS, F--- YELP AND F--- ALL OF YOU. BRING IT. WE WILL FIGHT BACK."

Believe us when we tell you they were just getting started. Things got so bad that Amy's has since created a new Facebook page. Nearly a month later, let's just say that it's still not polite coffee talk.

The Comic Sans LeBron slam

Cleveland Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert's 2010 open letter to fans after LeBron James left the team for the shores of South Beach is mainly remembered for another typographical choice. His fiery screed was typed in Comic Sans -- an Internet-reviled font that is sort of hard to read without giggling.

But it was the single sentence he decided to go all-caps with that makes this list:

"I PERSONALLY GUARANTEE THAT THE CLEVELAND CAVALIERS WILL WIN AN NBA CHAMPIONSHIP BEFORE THE SELF-TITLED FORMER 'KING' WINS ONE"

As you NBA fans may have noted, James already has one title under his belt with the Miami Heat and he's currently in the finals playing for number two.

The Cavs? Still waiting.

I'll tweet you, babe

OK, Cher, we get it. Donald Trump rubs a lot of people the wrong way.

From the tone-deaf self-promotion to the strident political views, Mr. Apprentice has mixed it up with everyone from irreverent sports blog Deadspin to CNN's own Wolf Blitzer.

So when the pop-music icon caught on to an effort to boycott Trump's line of neckties, she was so worked up she had to do it in all-caps.

"I'll NEVER GO TO MACY'S AGAIN! I didn't know they sold Donald Trump's Line! If they don't care that they sell products from a LOUDMOUTH," Cher wrote on Twitter.

Then:  "RACIST CRETIN,WHO'D LIE LIKE 'HIS RUG' TO GET SOME CHEAP PRESS! I CANT BELIEVE MACY'S THINKS HE'S THE RIGHT 'MAN' 2 REPRESENT THEIR NAME!"

Say what you will about The Donald. At least he didn't resort to all-caps in his response.

"@cher should spend more time focusing on her family and dying career!" Trump wrote.

We didn't say it was classy. Just that it wasn't in all-caps.

Drunk Hulk Is drunk

OK, we didn't say they were the worst all-caps rants. Just the top ones.

And it's hard to top an enormous green rage monster who has knocked back a few too many.

Twitter's Drunk Hulk, one of our favorite parody accounts, tweets sort of exactly like you'd imagine a witty, pre-intervention Hulk would tackle the topics of the day.

On government surveillance: "IT GREAT GOVERNMENT RECORD EVERY PHONE CALL! NOW DRUNK HULK FIND OUT WHAT WAS SAID WHEN DRUNK HULK CALL YOU LAST NIGHT!"

On really sad fantasy epics: "GAME OF THRONES! GO TO YOUR ROOM! AND THINK ABOUT WHAT YOU DONE!"

On a Billy Joel classic: "IF YOU SEE MAN MAKING LOVE TO TONIC AND GIN AT BAR! NO SING SONG ABOUT IT! CALL POLICE IMMEDIATELY!"

His whole Twitter feed is an all-caps rant. And we're not going to tell him to stop, are you?

What did we miss? Let us know about some of your favorite rants in the comments.

@highlight

The U.S. Navy has announced it will no longer communicate in all-caps

@highlight

Tradition dated back to teletype machines of the 1800s

@highlight

Even innocent messages seem aggressive online when they're capitalized

@highlight

From Kanye West to Cher, here are some of our favoritesLOS ANGELES, California (CNN)  -- Tami Farrell, who became Miss California USA last week when Donald Trump dumped Carrie Prejean, promises to avoid controversy during the five months of her reign.

Tami Farrell became Miss California USA last week and is set to reign for five months.

"I'm trying my best to kind of calm the waters," Farrell said in an interview Sunday at the Playboy Jazz Festival at the Hollywood Bowl.

Prejean's same-sex marriage comments, semi-nude photos and personal feud with state pageant officials contributed to a storm of controversy that brought unusual attention to the title Farrell now carries.

"I think that everything in life happens for a reason, and I'm just blessed to have this opportunity," Farrell said.

Farrell, 24, said, "it's been a crazy few days" since Wednesday, when she got the call that Prejean had been ousted.

"I keep stepping into controversy, but hopefully I can avoid it for a while," she said.

She hopes the extra attention will help launch her show business career.

"A couple of my favorite music groups have called, because I sing, so maybe we could record something together," she said. Farrell did not name the groups.

She is also a writer and has had meetings in recent days about a screenplay she's written.

"All I can tell you is that it's hilarious and that if (actor) Will Farrell or (director) Adam McCay could give me a call, things would be wonderful," she said.

@highlight

Tami Farrell replaces Carrie Prejean for the next five months

@highlight

Farrell says she hopes to avoid the controversy that plagued Prejean

@highlight

"I'm just blessed to have this opportunity," Farrell says

@highlight

Farrell hopes ascending to title will help launch her show business careerWashington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama made light of the serious -- a Secret Service scandal and lavish spending at a government conference -- and the inconsequential -- the graying of his hair -- at the annual White House Correspondents' Association Dinner on Saturday night.

And he even made time for business tycoon Donald Trump, whom Obama kidded at last year's dinner about pushing the president to release his long-form birth certificate.

"We gather during a historic anniversary. This weekend last year, we finally delivered justice to one of the world's most notorious individuals," Obama said to a packed ballroom at the Washington Hilton.

A photo of Trump was shown, rather than that of slain al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.

Obama then went back even further in time.

"Four years ago, I was in a brutal primary battle with Hillary Clinton," Obama said. "Four years later, she won't stop drunk texting me from Cartagena," a reference to the city where Secret Service agents allegedly consorted with prostitutes.

He then pointed out photos of his hair four years ago, and in 2012, showing it had grayed considerably.

"Four years from now I will look like this," he said to laughs as a photo of actor Morgan Freeman was shown to the audience of more than 2,500.

Journalists and news organizations were well-represented at the affair and they brought famous faces in tow.

Among those who dazzled on the red carpet Saturday were Claire Danes, Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd, Sigourney Weaver, Eva Longoria, Viola Davis, Kerry Washington, Rachel Zoe, Goldie Hawn and Josh Hutcherson.

The annual gala, also known as the "Nerd Prom," raises money for journalism scholarships.

The president, speaking before comedian Jimmy Kimmel, made light of a General Services Adminstration conference in Las Vegas that cost more than $800,000.

"Look at this party. We have men in tuxes, women in gowns, fine wine, first-class entertainment. I was relieved to hear it was not a GSA conference," Obama quipped.

He even chided Kimmel, star of ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"

"Jimmy got his start on the 'Man Show.' In Washington, that is what we call a congressional hearing on contraception."

Kimmel, who took the stage following the president's monologue, hit back.

"Remember when the country rallied around you in the hopes of a better tomorrow?" Kimmel asked. "That was hilarious."

Kimmel said there was a term for "guys like the president," and it wasn't two terms.

Nobody in the room was safe from Kimmel's barbs, which he fired at politicians, journalists, celebrities and corporate executives in attendance.

Kimmel praised Michelle Obama's work to combat obesity with her health initiative. The comedian then pointed out rotund New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie to the first lady.

"Look, it's Chris Christie. Get him," Kimmel said.

Kimmel then took aim at Newt Gingrich's weight. But Kimmel's fat jokes fell, well, flat with the former House speaker.

The dinner was Obama's fourth as president. It has been a ritual in Washington since 1920, when it was first held to boost communication between the press and the president, according to the association's website. It was open only to men until 1962, when President John F. Kennedy said he would not attend unless women were invited.

Speaking of women, first ladies have been known to get in their own digs.

In 2005, Laura Bush said friends went out one night to see male strippers after Bush, "Mr. Excitement," was typically fast asleep at 9 p.m.

First lady Hillary Clinton was featured in a video clip shown at the 2000 dinner. Seated in a limousine, she told the camera, "I wish I could be here more, but I really think Bill has everything under control."

The president ran out to the White House driveway, yelling after the departing car, shouting, "Wait! Wait! You forgot your lunch!"

While the dinner is notorious for its bawdy humor, the president took a moment to remember the sacrifices of journalists Anthony Shadid and Marie Colvin, who both died while covering the conflict in Syria.

@highlight

Jimmy Kimmel gives as good as he gets

@highlight

The president makes light of the Secret Service, GSA scandals

@highlight

He also makes references to Donald Trump and his own hair(CNN)  -- Comedian Joan Rivers and real estate mogul Donald Trump -- that's a twosome never known for mincing their words.

Joan Rivers appeared on CNN's "Larry King Live" Monday night and explained her explosive confrontations.

Trump selected Rivers as this season's winner of "The Celebrity Apprentice," and they appeared on "Larry King Live" Monday night, full of their classic candor.

Among the topics covered: Rivers' long-running war of words with runner-up Annie Duke, her dust-up and make-up with Clint Black and the "reason" she is against same-sex marriage. And the Donald explains why Rivers had what it took to emerge the winner.

The following interview has been edited for brevity and clarity:

Larry King: Donald, was it a tough decision?

Donald Trump: Well, it was. Joan fully understands it was a very, very tight race. And Annie [Duke] was terrific and Joan was terrific. In the end, I decided to go with Joan. She displayed tremendous courage. She really took a lot of abuse over the course of 14 weeks.

King: Joan, in last night's finale, you beat poker champion Annie Duke. You and Annie were still at each other up until the final moments. Let's take a look.

[King shows a video clip from "The Celebrity Apprentice"]

Annie Duke: I do not know a boardroom in this country where someone would be allowed to say that someone would spit on the ground and drown their mother in it, where someone would be allowed to call their friends Mafia, where someone would be allowed to say that someone is worse than Hitler. If that happened in a real office...

Joan Rivers: You're not worse than Hitler ...

Duke: ...in a real boardroom.

Rivers: Hitler never had PMS.

Duke: This is what I'm saying. If it happened in a real boardroom, she would have to be fired or that would be actionable.

Rivers: ... I have run a business for 20 years honorably. I have never fired anybody. I am the Number One jewelry business on television, with honor.

[End of video clip]

King: Oh, boy.

Rivers: Yes, oh boy.

Trump: And, Larry, that was the nice part.  Watch Larry King's interview with Rivers and Trump »

King: Joanny, where did you come up with that 'worse than Hitler' crack?

Rivers: Oh, I don't know. You know, you're always saying things. Hitler is the worst villain in the world. So when you really get furious at someone, you say, 'Oh, you're a female Hitler' or something, you know? It's just an expression. But I stand behind it.

King: What did she do to you?

Rivers: She was very duplicitous ... there was so much mud-slinging, which I'm not going to go into. I was told she said she wished I would die; she said I was a cancer.

King: What did you make of that squabble, Donald?

Trump: Well, I liked it very much. ... Especially this morning, when the ratings came in, because it was a ratings bonanza last night for NBC.

King: What does Joanny get now?

Trump: She got $250,000 plus she raised hundreds of thousands more during the course of the 14 weeks. But she gets $250,000. That goes to God's Love We Deliver, which is a great charity in New York.

King: What surprised you about this contest?

Trump: Well, I was just impressed with the intelligence, with the energy and verve that Joan had. I mean, Joan's energy was beyond everybody else's. And she wasn't necessarily the youngest person on the panel.

King: Joan, what surprised you about this experience?

Rivers: How it became so much more than a television game or a show. It became absolutely something I wanted to do. It was like I was going to win for my charity.

King: What got you so emotionally involved, not just with Annie, other contestants?

Rivers: Larry, I play totally full-out. And you get very worn down. It's all these weeks and weeks of getting up at 5:30 in the morning, working until 11:00 at night, no assistants to help you. You're out there on the firing line.

And, you know, the differences arise and show very quickly. You know who's good, you know who's bad, you know who's a liar, you know who's lazy, you know who's brilliant, you know who's a good worker. And after a while, you just play -- it becomes "Lord of the Flies."

King: Joan, by the way, written a Web exclusive for us about her "Celebrity Apprentice" win. Click here for Joan Rivers' blog, exclusively on CNN.com

King: Do you think you'll ever make up with Annie?

Rivers: Well, I went over afterward; I went over to congratulate her, and I made her stand up. ... Nobody lost last night, for God's sake. No one heard of Annie Duke before this show. Now everyone's heard of her. Her charity made $700,000. ... And what did upset me was on the way out, her whole group gave us the finger and booed. And I thought that was .. not good. Not good.

King: Why does this get so dramatic?

Rivers: Because it's "Lord of the Flies." You have no sleep.

King: Weren't you and Clint Black kind of mad at each other for a while and now it's OK?

Rivers: Oh, yes. Clint is a chauvinist. My joke is now he wouldn't even let his wife have Equal in her coffee. You know, that's Clint. But Clint is Clint. You get very angry at him, but at least you know that's Clint. You know what's going to be dealt to you.

King: What did you learn from doing this?

Rivers: So many people in this country are counted out from the age of 60. When I walked in, I looked them all over, I thought: 'I can take you all with one behind my back at 75.'

King: Did you expect to win?

Rivers: Truly, no. Donald plays it so close and so intelligently. I did not know until they called out her name. I really thought they were going to say, Joan you're wonderful, but you're too emotional and blah, blah, blah. And Annie raised so much money -- which, indeed, she did. I was in shock and thrilled.

Rivers: Can I say one thing quickly?

King: Quick.

Rivers: Gay marriage, I am so against it because all my gay friends are out. And if they get married, it will cost me a fortune in gifts.

@highlight

Joan Rivers infuriated "Apprentice" rival Annie Duke over comparison to Hitler

@highlight

Donald Trump says he loved the confrontations -- and the ratings that followed

@highlight

Rivers says experience of being on "Apprentice" is like "Lord of the Flies"

@highlight

She jokes Clint Black is so chauvinist he wouldn't let his wife have Equal in her coffeeWashington (CNN) -- You can describe it as a political convention or a carnival, but either way, all eyes are on the Conservative Political Action Conference this week.

The three-day event -- better known by its initials, CPAC -- kicks off Thursday at National Harbor, a major convention center just outside of the nation's capital. The conference is the largest annual gathering of conservative leaders and activists, and when there's no Republican in the White House, it's a must-attend cattle call for GOP presidential hopefuls looking to pass the conference's conservative litmus test. CPAC will close Saturday with the much-watched results of the confab's GOP presidential nomination straw poll.

"After the Super Bowl and the two parties' national conventions, CPAC is the most covered event in the country," Al Cardenas, chairman of the American Conservative Union, the organization that puts on the conference, told CNN.

Latest developments

"It's the only venue where thousands of activists get to see, back to back during our three-day conference, the likely 2016 leading GOP presidential candidates and begin to create perceptions which last through Election Day."

Among those addressing the crowd this year are nearly all the major names among the potential 2016 Republican White House contenders. They include Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky, Marco Rubio of Florida, Ted Cruz of Texas, and Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the 2012 GOP vice presidential nominee. Also speaking are Govs. Rick Perry of Texas, who ran for the Republican nomination in 2012, Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Chris Christie of New Jersey, who wasn't invited last year because he wasn't considered conservative enough.

Inside Politics: Will CPAC be launch of Cruz 2016?

Former Sen. Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who also ran for the White House in 2012, and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, who made a bid for the nomination in 2008, are addressing the audience. And don't forget about former Alaska Gov. and 2008 GOP vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and Donald Trump, who seem to be flirting with 2016 bids.

"The reason so many presidential hopefuls come to CPAC is because they get to take a measure of themselves before an activist audience, and that audience gets to take its measure of the potential candidates," Republican communications strategist Keith Appell told CNN.

"CPAC still provides both the contenders and the pretenders these opportunities," added Appell, a senior vice president at CRC Public Relations, a Washington, D.C., PR firm that has had many conservative clients.

Republican strategist Ana Navarro says this year's colder and snowier-than-normal winter in the Washington area won't keep conservatives away.

"Thousands of people trek to snow- and ice-covered Washington for three days to listen to Republican leaders preach the gospel to the faithful. I'd call that relevant. It's a good platform to keep the Republican base, and many young people, energized and charged up," said Navarro, a CNN contributor.

CPAC changes mind, won't allow atheist group at conference

CPAC has its critics

Some conservatives say that CPAC has become too mainstream.

"I think CPAC is really RPAC these days and is as much, if not more, lobbyist oriented than grass-roots oriented. It is like church homecoming for the Republican Party, wrote Erick Erickson, co-founder of RedState.com and a leading voice on the right.

And Rep. Steve King, an outspoken conservative from Iowa, said in a prepared statement that he "will neither speak at nor attend the Conservative Political Action Conference."

Instead, King will join other conservatives in addressing a National Security Action Summit being held just a few blocks away from CPAC.

Spotlight on Christie

While most of the major potential 2016 contenders will address CPAC, two will be absent: Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush had previous business commitments, and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin has events to attend in his home state. Both spoke at CPAC last year.

While the spotlight's on the speeches in the main ballroom, for the possible White House hopefuls, some of the real action is away from the cameras, in private meetings with top activists, strategists and rainmakers.

One of those possible presidential contenders is Christie. The pragmatic Garden State governor, never popular with many in the party's conservative base, was not invited to last year's conference. CPAC organizers said Christie was snubbed because some of his positions were not conservative enough.

Are controversies helping Christie with conservatives?

Christie is currently awash in allegations that some of his aides closed access lanes to the George Washington Bridge last September to punish the mayor of Fort Lee, New Jersey, for not endorsing Christie's re-election. The governor has denied knowing anything about the gridlock until after it occurred and has said he knew nothing about any political mischief by members of his administration.

While one tea party leader told CNN he was "stunned" that Christie was invited this year, Cardenas, the American Conservative Union chairman, said the national media coverage of the controversies in New Jersey might help Christie with the party's base, which doesn't like to see Republicans attacked by the media, adding that the episode's made conservatives "kindred spirits with Gov. Christie."

While many conservatives may not be Christie fans, they like the mainstream media even less.

"I think Christie is going to get a good reception, maybe even better than he would have before the bridge thing. He's a good, engaging, energetic speaker. He's been under attack by mainstream media and Democrats everywhere. The enemy of my enemy is my friend," added Navarro, the GOP strategist.

Straw poll scrutiny

The results of the CPAC straw poll are analyzed and scrutinized on TV and online. But the idea that the results are any kind of barometer of what will actually happen in the battle for the GOP nomination are extremely debatable.

But the straw poll is useful.

"The straw poll is still more of a scrimmage of expectations. Beat the expectations, and you can generate a lot of buzz among the media and activists," said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist, CNN contributor and senior adviser to Mitt Romney in the former Massachusetts governor's 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns.

In 2007, Romney, considered in tune with conservative activists at the time, made winning at CPAC a priority. And he met expectations with a straw poll victory. He won again in 2008, narrowly edging out eventual GOP presidential nominee Sen. John McCain of Arizona, who was not a favorite of the conservative base. Romney won even though he ended his bid for the Republican nomination on the first day of the conference.

Then-Rep. Ron Paul of Texas won the straw poll in 2010 and 2011, in between his two bids for the GOP nomination. His victories were proof of the strong libertarian influence on the CPAC straw poll.

Romney won in 2012, as he was battling two more conservative candidates: Santorum and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich. Romney's 2012 appearance is less remembered for his straw poll victory than for his description of himself as "severely conservative" in his speech to the audience.

Last year's contest ended up being a two-person race, with Rand Paul winning the straw poll with 25% of the vote, one percentage point ahead of Rubio. The 21 other people on the ballot were far behind, registering in single digits.

This year, 26 names are on the straw poll ballot.

@highlight

CPAC is the country's largest gathering of conservative leaders and activists

@highlight

Most of the potential GOP 2016 candidates will speak to the conference

@highlight

Some conservatives are staying away from the conference, saying it's too mainstream(CNN) -- The media have been giving us binders full of blather.

In a campaign that is supposedly, allegedly and ostensibly about big and serious issues, we have been wallowing in what amounts to sideshow stuff.

It's not just the focus on Mitt Romney saying at last week's presidential debate that in looking for appointees in Massachusetts he received "binders full of women," an admittedly funny phrase that exploded on cable news. The trending Twitter topic after this week's face off was President Obama's line about Romney hearkening back to a military backed by "horses and bayonets." Journalists after the first debate flocked to that towering issue known as Big Bird.

Are the media trivializing the campaign?

We have, through the course of this endless campaign season, bounced from one ephemeral controversy to the next, from the dog on the roof to "oops!" from Etch A Sketch to Joe Biden's laughter.

Journalists have pounced on botched phrases deemed to be gaffes:

"I like being able to fire people;" "You didn't build that;" "Ann Romney never worked a day in her life;" "I'm not concerned about the very poor."

Sometimes there are legitimate questions embedded in the choice of language, as with Romney's apparent dismissal of 47% of America, but more often it's just a chance to turn the candidate into a piÃ±ata.

'Binders full of women' overshadows Presidential debate

Campaigns have always had their lighter side, of course, but this year we seem to be getting more empty calories than ever. That is not to slight the dogged reporters who have in fact delved into the issues and done the arduous work of fact-checking the candidates' ads and utterances. But let's face it: How often has their work been on the front pages or at the top of the newscasts?

Sure, in an age of on-demand information, you can gorge yourself on the candidates' conflicting arguments on the auto bailout or trade with China. But the media create narratives by cranking up the volume, and you have to strain to hear the issues dissected in a way you didn't when Donald Trump was throwing around his birtherism nonsense. Yes, the substantive pieces have run on inside newspaper pages, occasionally on home pages, and popped up on television, which has a harder time coping with complexity. So much easier for all of us to trumpet the latest poll.

More dual-screen users Tweeting during debates

In their debates, the candidates have clashed on tax cuts, health care, immigration, Libya and other vital questions. You might wonder: Is Romney suddenly moderating positions he has taken for the last two years? Why, on Monday night in Boca Raton, did he keep agreeing with Obama's foreign policy? Does the president have a real second-term agenda? Yet the post-game chatter has zeroed in on zingers, body language, interruptions and attacks on the moderators themselves.

The foreign policy debate was sober and high-minded; does anyone actually believe the media will be exploring the exchanges on Afghanistan and Syria for more than 24 hours?

Some of this sustained superficiality has to do with today's relentless news cycle and shrinking attention spans. "You can't talk in 140 characters on Twitter about the complexities of the budget or taxes," veteran journalist Steve Roberts told me on Reliable Sources. Maybe so, but does that mean we just punt?

Obama, Jon Stewart and 2012's comedy factor

The burden falls on the candidates as well. If they speak in vague sound bites and duck hard choices, it's more difficult (but hardly impossible) for news organizations to put substantive questions front and center.

What's more, they are increasingly ignoring the media's attempts to call them on exaggerations and falsehoods. "We're not going (to) let our campaign be dictated by fact-checkers," Romney pollster Neil Newhouse said at the GOP convention. Once upon a time, campaigns felt compelled to make adjustments when their distortions were spotlighted. These days they just double the ad buy.

Have you noticed how many times the media have declared that we are about to plunge into a dead-serious debate? First the campaign was going to be about the economy. When the Supreme Court upheld Obamacare, we were assured that health care would be a dominant issue.

When Romney picked Paul Ryan, the pundits agreed that this would be a big election about Medicare and budget-cutting. Instead we wound up with endless stories about Ryan's P90X workout.

Hey, I get it. Everyone's chasing clicks and eyeballs. Delving into the intricacies of how Obama and Romney would fix Medicare can be eye-glazing, while writing about Michelle and Ann on "The View" is fun.

But as the clock runs out on the 2012 race, I'm left with this nagging feeling: Don't we deserve a better campaign? And aren't the media partially responsible?

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Howard Kurtz.

@highlight

Howard Kurtz: We've seen media seize on a parade of trivial statements in campaign

@highlight

He cites "binders full of women," "horses and bayonets" and Big Bird

@highlight

Kurtz says coverage of the substance of the campaign gets overshadowed by minor things

@highlight

He says media chasing an audience discard serious issues and focus on crowd-pleasing themes(The Frisky) -- Zillions of famous married men have affairs. Some actually stayed with their mistress.

Prince Charles

Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles met at a polo match in 1970 and dated for a little while. They split, though, and went on to marry others -- Charles famously got hitched to Lady Diana in 1981.

However, he and Camilla started secretly seeing each other in the '80s. Charles and Diana finally divorced in 1996.

Though Charles and Camilla stayed together, they kept a low profile, especially after Princess Diana died. It wasn't until 2005 that they walked down the aisle together.

Brad Pitt

Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie aren't married and say they have no plans to do so. But they've been together for five years and have three biological children together and adopted two others jointly.

The two reportedly fell in love on the set of "Mr. and Mrs. Smith" when he was still married to Jennifer Aniston.

The Frisky: I slept with your husband -- here's why

Mel Gibson

When Mel Gibson's almost 30-year marriage went belly-up, he wasted no time bringing his new woman, Russian pianist Oksana Grigorieva, out in public. Within a month, he confirmed that Oksana was pregnant and they had a baby together in December. But, naturally, they've split. Rumor has it that Mel was unfaithful to her, too.

Humphrey Bogart

Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall first teamed up on the movie "To Have and Have Not," when she was 19 and he was 45. They fell in love and began an affair -- Bogart was unhappily married at the time. After they shot their second movie together, Bogart filed for divorce and the two were married.

Howard Hawks famously said of them, "Bogie fell in love with the character she played, so she had to keep playing it the rest of her life."

Ethan Hawke

Uma Thurman and Ethan Hawke seemed like the perfect couple -- heck, they met on the set of the most awesome movie ever, "Gattaca." But in 2004, they divorced and both seemed pretty tortured by the decision.

Rumors flew that Ethan was having an affair with a 22-year-old model. But it turns out things were even worse; he allegedly was getting too close to the family's own nanny, Ryan Shawhughes. He also went on to marry her and they had a baby together in 2008.

The Frisky: 10 stars who (maybe) have secret babies

Tiki Barber

Tiki Barber didn't just cheat on his wife who is pregnant with twins -- he left her at the 8-months-pregnant mark for the other woman, Traci Lynn Johnson, who started out as his intern at NBC. Only time will tell if these two stay together, but for now, they're on.

Donald Trump

Many years before "The Apprentice," Donald Trump fired his first wife, Ivana Trump, in favor of his mistress, Marla Maples. Which led Ivana to utter her legendary line: "Don't get mad. Get everything."

Ryan Phillippe

Ryan Phillippe was reportedly close to "Stop-Loss" co-star Abbie Cornish when Reese Witherspoon filed for divorce. Soon after, Ryan officially began dating Abbie. Amazingly, the two stayed together for three years, just splitting recently.

Steve McQueen

"King of Cool" Steve McQueen reportedly cheated on his first wife with Ali McGraw and married her after getting divorced. Then he allegedly cheated on Ali with model Barbara Minty. He went on to marry Barbara, but sadly died less than a year later.

The Frisky: Another celeb Photoshopped into thinness?

Billy Crudup

Billy Crudup became public enemy number one when he left a 7-months-pregnant Mary-Louise Parker for the much younger Claire Danes.

Again, the new couple had some staying power, though, lasting from 2004 to 2006. At which point, Claire fell for a Billy lookalike, Hugh Dancy, on the set of "Evening" and reportedly began an affair with him. Hey, what goes around comes around.

TM & © 2010 TMV, Inc. | All Rights Reserved

@highlight

Some times an affair can lead to marriage

@highlight

Prince Charles wed Camilla Parker Bowles after both divorced their spouses

@highlight

Humphrey Bogart was unhappily married when he met future wife Lauren Bacall(EW.com) -- Although the tower in question in the gimcrack action comedy "Tower Heist" is fictional, many New York tourists will recognize the aggressive nouveau-riche opulence of the building's exterior as that of an actual Manhattan hotel condominium owned by aggressive nouveau-riche Donald Trump.

The aesthetic pairing of The Donald and director Brett Ratner is a natural. This brassy production, an imitation "Ocean's 13Â½," features the name-brand talents of Ben Stiller (as an honorable Tower manager named Josh) and Eddie Murphy (as a con man called Slide) leading rookie thieves in an elaborate Robin Hood-style heist. Their target? The oversize penthouse of one Arthur Shaw (Alan Alda), a shady billionaire who keeps a rare 1963 Ferrari in his living room.

In other words, "Tower Heist" is the cinematic version of a Trump property: overblinged, eye-catching, and essentially tacky. For a movie that claims its heart is with the masses -- the 99 percent! -- there's an awful lot of production-design admiration lavished on the trappings of the effin-rich 1 percent. (Ratner had specific ideas about which pedigreed modern-art reproductions he wanted on the walls.) Shaw is a fictional variation on Bernie Madoff: Entrusted with the retirement savings of the multicultural low-wage employees who keep the Tower running, he takes their money and ruins their lives.

And so, rallied by egalitarian friend-to-all Josh -- the guy takes the subway to work from Queens, so you know he's a mensch -- and hastily educated in criminal technique by Josh's less honorable Queens neighbor Slide, these blue-collar little people rise up in triumph to steal their money back. By the moral standards of Occupy Hollywood, the crime earns an ethical thumbs-up.

You may think I am picking too much on what's built to be a fun, diverting, New York-state-of-mind caper comedy -- a joke-filled cavalcade that marks 50-year-old Eddie Murphy's welcome return to the edgier stuff that made him famous. Alrighty, let's talk about Murphy: He's nowhere to be found in the first half of the movie! And he's only there to illuminate selected scenes in the second: He's like the spot lighting supplied by a big-a** chandelier in an ostentatious Trump lobby. That's too bad, because when Murphy is on screen, his comedic vigor -- reminiscent of Chris Tucker's jive-talk mania in Ratner's "Rush Hour" movies but with a blast of Murphy-specific danger -- gooses the movie's energy level. I've missed that guy.

But whenever Murphy wanders off, the movie's pulse rate drops. Tower Heist is in effect two movies: One belongs to Murphy, the other to the rest of the cast. Josh's drippy in-house recruits include Matthew Broderick as a broke ex--Wall Streeter and Tower resident (and the kind of fretful nebbish he perfected on Broadway in The Producers); Michael PeÃ±a as an uncouth rookie bellhop; and "Ocean"'s alumnus Casey Affleck as an unreliable concierge who happens to be Josh's stressed-out brother-in-law. (The band of gentlemen credited with the story and screenplay includes Ted Griffin, who worked on Steven Soderbergh's 2001 "Ocean's Eleven.")

Two female characters also join the increasingly frantic male-driven mayhem. (Here's where I mention with an eye roll that, in what I hope is a quickly passing trend in male- as well as female-driven comedies, vaginas are briefly discussed, this time by Affleck.) TÃ©a Leoni, who worked with the director 11 years ago in "The Family Man," gamely plays a no-nonsense FBI agent with cute rough edges. And Gabourey Sidibe, the striking plus-size Oscar-nominated star of "Precious," makes her Hollywood leap as a feisty Jamaican chambermaid who gets in on the heist action. (The girl's got mad safecracking skills.)

I don't know why Ratner and cinematographer Dante Spinotti felt compelled to push the camera in close, as if gawking at Sidibe's dramatic coloring and size. But then, I also don't know why she wasn't used more: Murphy never looks more alive and excited by a fellow actor -- challenged to peak performance -- than during ribald, flirtatious banter with Sidibe's self-possessed working girl. She's something new; Murphy in "Tower Heist" is something rebooted. Together they build something with more visual interest than any Trump Tower on any tourist map.

EW.com rating: C+

See the full article at EW.com.

CLICK HERE to Try 2 RISK FREE issues of Entertainment Weekly

© 2011 Entertainment Weekly and Time Inc. All rights reserved.

@highlight

"Tower Heist" is the cinematic version of a Trump property

@highlight

Murphy's nowhere to be found in the first half

@highlight

Sidibe's self-possessed working girl is something new(CNN) -- Comedians Keegan Michael Key and Jordan Peele, the brains behind the hit Comedy Central sketch show "Key & Peele," joked that President Barack Obama is the idol black nerds have longed for and needed.

"Obama was the best thing for black nerds everywhere. Finally we had a role model," Peele humorously told reporters recently. "Before Obama, we basically had Urkel."

Black nerds, aka "blerds," is a way to describe African-American intellectuals in a time when it's finally cool to be something other than an athlete or rapper.

"There have long been African-American intellectuals," said Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., whose new genealogical show, "Finding Your Roots with Henry Louis Gates Jr.," debuted last Sunday on PBS.

"The difference with my generation and those after is that there are more of us in the spotlight," Gates said. "With my PBS specials, I drew a record 25 million viewers. I wouldn't have been able to do that without the platform I have."

"It's good to see black intellectuals do well," he said. "We as a people are a whole range of things, and we're finally starting to see that reflected in the media."

Because there is a growing number of prominent and successful people considered blerds such as President Obama, Gates and astrophysicist and PBS star Neil deGrasse Tyson, TV viewers are starting to see more and more blerd-type characters on their favorite comedies and even children's programs.

That's right. Lance Robertson, aka DJ Lance Rock from Nickelodeon's "Yo Gabba Gabba!" is a total blerd.

The list also includes comedic actor Jordan Carlos from "I Just Want My Pants Back" on MTV; Aisha Tyler from FX's "Archer" and "Happy Endings" star Damon Wayans Jr. on ABC.

"I'm a black nerd and that was illegal until 2003," joked Donald Glover in one of his Comedy Central standup specials.

Glover has also started blending his nerdy habits in with that of his "Community" character, Troy.

A comedian and a former writer for "30 Rock," Glover has created a whole stand-up act trumpeting blerds like the president and rapper Kanye West.

"Strange, specific stuff -- that's what makes a nerd a nerd," Glover has explained during his bit. "Kanye West is a black nerd. If you go up to Kanye West and say 'Hey, what are your favorite things?' He'd be like 'Robots and Teddy bears.'"

"That's a nerd."

Similar observations have been made by comedian and actor Kevin Hart (a guest star on ABC's "Modern Family").

Like Glover, Hart has created a new brand of dorky, self-deprecating humor that is completely different than that of their comedy predecessors, Eddie Murphy and Chris Rock.

"It's fashionable to wear bowties and be educated," said Dave Nemetz, a TV content producer for Yahoo! "It's part of multiculturalism and with everything blending together, there's a certain subset of (black nerd life) that's becoming cool right now.

"Nerds are cool right now in general and that's certainly an aspect."

Nemetz said the rise in characters such as Brad (Damon Wayans Jr.) on "Happy Endings" is also the result of color-blind casting.

"Damon Wayans' character wouldn't necessarily be a black character the way it was written," Nemetz said. "He's fantastic and that helped him get cast but I also think once you get people from different cultures coming in, and taking roles that may not have been written for them, you see this type of advancement.

"Twenty years ago, it would've been out of place to have this character there because it wasn't happening culturally."

Carlos, who also does standup, said his blerd character Eric on "I Just Want My Pants Back" was Jewish in the David J. Rosen book the show is based on. Rosen also created the TV show and Eric is a medical student.

"I like that they were open to different people coming in and going against type," Carlos said of the show's producers. "I've been Pookie Crack Head No. 2, but I'd never been a member of a cast."

Alphonso McAuley, plays a blerd on the Fox comedy "Breaking In."

He said his character Cash is into "Star Wars" way more than he is in real life, in spite of the fact that he owns not one but two "Star Wars" Lego sets.

"Up until now, black nerds weren't being celebrated," McAuley said. "We've seen the thug, the athlete, the rapper and the comedic best friend. This is something different.

"It's cool to be uncool."

@highlight

Black nerds or 'blerds' are increasingly visible in pop culture

@highlight

Actors like Donald Glover, Damon Wayans and Alphonso McAuley are playing nerds

@highlight

Expert says "It's fashionable to wear bowties and be educated"(CNN) -- The organizers of the 2016 Olympics in Rio selected a U.S-based company Wednesday to design the golf course where the leading players in the world will battle for gold in four years time.

Hanse Golf Course Design beat off seven other challengers, including golf legends Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player and Greg Norman, to land the honor as the sport returns to the Olympic program for the first time in 112 years.

The golf course will be built at Reserva de Marapendi in Barra da Tijuca, the district that will contain the largest number of Olympic venues. It is about five kilometres from the Athletes' Village.

The Olympic golf competition will see medals awarded for men and women and the sport will also feature in the Paralympic Games in Rio. After the Games, the course will become a public facility to promote golf in Brazil.

Gil Hanse, 48, is the president of the company he founded in 1993 and has its headquarters in Malvern, Pennsylvania.

Blog: Why golf must get it right for 2016 Olympics

He will team up with LPGA star Amy Alcott, a five-time major winner, on the project and has also promised to relocate to the Brazilian city while the course is under construction.

"As it marks the return of golf to the Olympic Games after over a century of absence, this course represents the beginning of a new chapter in the history of the sport," said Carlos Arthur Nuzman, the president of the Rio organizing committee.

"It will enable Rio to host important events in the international calendar and it will be an example of sustainability and preservation of an environmentally protected area," he added.

Hanse was named "Architect of the Year" by Golf Magazine in 2009 and has been associated with a number of leading golf courses in the world, including Castle Stuart in Scotland.

Hanse has also been commissioned by American tycoon Donald Trump to re-work the famous 'Blue Monster' course at Doral, the venue for this week's WGC-Cadillac Championships.

Trump purchased the resort out of bankruptcy for $150 million last week.

The design company of Martin Hawtree, the architect for Trump's much-vaunted championship course at Menie in northern Scotland, was also among the disappointed bidders.

@highlight

Golf legends ignored in choice for designer of 2016 Olympic golf course in Rio

@highlight

Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player and Greg Norman were disappointed bidders

@highlight

American company - Hanse Golf Course Design - selected as architects

@highlight

Golf will return to the Olympic Games after 112-year absenceWashington (CNN)Rudy wouldn't be Rudy if he backed down.

But by amplifying his charge that President Barack Obama doesn't love America, former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani appears ready to risk sullying the powerful mythology that grew around his leadership when he steadied and steeled the nation in the terrible, confusing time after 9/11.

Since those fleeting days when he was a unifying figure, Giuliani has more often dealt in waspish rhetoric and savage mockery -- especially of a president he says has "failed."

"America's Mayor" has gone rogue, lashing out at Democrats and liberal orthodoxy on the war on terror and saying, for example, during the Ferguson controversy last year that the biggest danger to a black child was not from a white police officer but from another African American.

The latest firestorm over Obama's patriotism may complete Giuliani's political journey from the center left of the Republican Party to the conservative jungles where Sarah Palin and Donald Trump roam.

"Rudy has devolved into this red meat Republican base ideologue who periodically seems to need self identification," said Douglas Muzzio, a political scientist at Baruch College and a New York City media commentator. "Maybe it is Rudy in his dotage, where he has lost whatever boundaries he once had. He sounds like a bitter old man."

Giuliani seems to be relishing his moment back in the spotlight.

But he's also causing awkward moments for Republican candidates limbering up for a crack at the presidency in 2016 -- a fact the White House was quick to exploit on Friday.

"It's sad to see when somebody who has attained a certain level of public stature, and even admiration, tarnishes that legacy so thoroughly," said Obama's spokesman, Josh Earnest. "And the truth is, I don't take any joy, or vindication, or satisfaction from that. I think, really, the only thing that I feel is I feel sorry for Rudy Giuliani today."

Democratic National Committee Chairman Debbie Wasserman Schultz also joined in, seeking to use Giuliani to frustrate the GOP's effort to short circuit controversies which could tarnish the party's image.

"Now is the time for its leaders to stop this kind of nonsense. Enough," she said.

Giuliani's blast, delivered in a closed door Republican dinner, and repeated in a media tour, centers on a claim that Obama was not brought up to "love" his country like most Americans.

It's a familiar charge from the conservative fringe, that Obama is somehow different and doesn't view America as an exceptional paragon but is obsessed with apologizing for its failings.

"I do not believe, and I know this is a horrible thing to say, but I do not believe the president loves America," Giuliani was quoted as saying by Politico.

Asked by Fox News host Megyn Kelly Thursday whether he wanted to apologize,  Giuliani replied: "Not at all. I want to repeat it."

"I don't feel this love of America," Giuliani said. "I believe his initial approach is to criticize the United States."

Giuliani dug in further in an interview with the New York Times, rejecting the idea that his remarks were born of racism.

"I thought that was a joke, since (Obama) was brought up by a white mother, a white grandfather, went to white schools, " said Giuliani. "This isn't racism. This is socialism or possibly anti-colonialism," said Giuliani.

Far from being chastened, Giuliani, who wore a conspiratorial grin on Fox News,  seems gleeful in the firestorm. His behavior might be explained by a boxing maxim he was taught as a boy, which may also shed light on his calmness on 9/11.

"My father taught me ... when you get hit in the face for the first time, you're going to panic," Giuliani said in an interview with Forbes magazine in 2011. "Instead of panicking, just accept it. Stay calm. And any time anybody hits you, they always leave themselves open to be hit."

Giuliani's actions may be both a glimpse at his political philosophy and reflect a decision to wade into the political echo chamber to solidify his standing among a certain group of conservatives.

"He understands political posturing, he understands the effectiveness of rhetoric," said Errol Louis, a CNN political commentator from New York. "He clearly wants to play a role on the national stage. I guess he has chosen the role of bulldog -- go after the president, attack him, make wild accusations."

With a failed presidential campaign behind him, and having been out of office for a decade-and-a-half, it may be that Giuliani sees his future on the conservative talk circuit.

"To the extent that Giuliani will be involved in the game moving forward, it will be as a commentator or an analyst," said Costas Panagopoulos, a campaigns expert at Fordham University, New York. "In order to do that successfully these days, it helps to be controversial, sometimes inflammatory. I am not surprised that he has become increasingly forceful in his comments in the media. He is convinced that will help him."

Giuliani has rarely been known to back down. He was a Yankee fan growing up in Brooklyn, a ruthless prosecutor who took on unions and the Mob and a hard driving Republican who ran a liberal city.

When he awoke on September 11, 2001, Giuliani was a polarizing figure with a large ego and a sharp tongue. He might have purged New York street crime but was starting to grate on the city's nerves at the end of his second term.

Within hours, with a staggering display of calm, purpose and leadership, he had recast himself as a modern-era Winston Churchill, steadying and inspiring his people in their darkest hour. His heroics were such that he became one of those politicians who become known by a single name.

Marching up Broadway, he grabbed a mike and told people to evacuate southern Manhattan. He conjured up national resolve and resistance, as a country waited hours to see its president, out of sight on Air Force One.

"People tonight should say a prayer, for the people that we have lost, and be grateful that we are all here," he said in a late night press conference 12 hours after the Twin Towers came crashing down in a toxic cloud of fire and ash. "Tomorrow New York is going to be here and we are going to rebuild and we are going to be stronger from before."

Making Giuliani its Man of the Year, Time Magazine said: "When the day of infamy came, Giuliani seized it as if he had been waiting for it all his life."

But he struggled to meet huge expectations. His 2008 presidential campaign was a bust, plagued by poor organization and his liberal views on social issues that conflicted with the conservative base.

But there was also a sense that he was playing the September 11 card too much: Joe Biden's crack that there were "only three things he mentions in a sentence, a noun a verb and 9/11" was funny because it bore more than a ring of truth.

That was years ago now. But while his years of elective office are behind him, Giuliani still seems to pine for the political spotlight. So he has every incentive to keep this row going as long as he can.

@highlight

Giuliani defiant about Obama comments

@highlight

Remarks could sully his 9/11 legacy(CNN) -- Country singer Trace Adkins lost his home to fire Saturday, but his three young daughters were saved by following fire safety tips they learned at school, Adkins' wife said.

The flames apparently ignited in the garage, but quickly spread to the attic of the large home Saturday afternoon, said Brentwood, Tennessee, Fire Chief Brian Goss. The house is considered a total loss.

"Stuff is stuff," Rhonda Adkins told a reporter for CNN affiliate WSMV in Nashville as she stood on a neighbor's lawn watching her home burn.

Her three young daughters and their dog were inside the home with their nanny when the fire started. Rhonda Adkins was driving a few blocks away when a neighbor called her.

"She said that the house was on fire and we looked up in the air and we saw the black smoke," Adkins said. "And I said, 'Oh, my God, this isn't happening, this isn't real.'"

When she pulled up to her yard, she found her children there unhurt, she said.

"They ran to their safe place like we practiced, in the front yard at a big tree," she said. "And it worked. You know, fire safety is so important, and today we used it."

Brentwood firefighters, the same ones who were inside her home battling the flames, visited her children's elementary school to teach fire safety earlier this year, she said. One lesson was to place a yellow ribbon where the family should gather if the house caught fire.

"I tied the yellow ribbon around the tree to go to," she said. "It stayed there for about a month. Trace kept going, 'When you gonna take that ribbon down?' and I'm like, 'You know, I might need it one day.'"

Adkins said she never really expected it to be needed. "But we did what those firefighters told us and we practiced it today," she said. "It saved my kids' lives."

With her daughters, their nanny and the family dog safe, Adkins said it was easy for her to be calm and thankful despite the loss of her home. She did have one regret, though.

"I have not backed up all my photographs, and I'm just sitting here sick because those are the things that matter the most," she said. "It's your memories, our wedding pictures, I don't have, because the negatives are in the house.

"Please, everybody, practice fire safety, and back up all your pictures," she said.

Her husband was on a plane to Alaska for two shows and some fishing when the fire happened. His publicist said he immediately boarded a return flight to Tennessee when he landed.

"Trace wishes to express his gratitude for the immediate response of the Brentwood Fire Department and is humbled by the outpouring of concern from friends and fans," his spokesman said in a written statement to CNN Sunday.

Coincidentally, Adkins' newest single, "Just Fishin,'" is being released this week. The video, which features the singer and his youngest child, Trinity, on a father-daughter fishing trip, was released Friday.

Adkins, 49, was a finalist on NBC's "Celebrity Apprentice" in 2008, but host Donald Trump chose Piers Morgan, now a CNN talk show host, as the winner.

CNN's Denise Quan contributed to this report.

@highlight

Flames started in the garage and quickly spread, the fire chief says

@highlight

Adkins' three daughters ran from the burning house to a planned safe place

@highlight

Firefighters' visit to their school "saved my kids' lives," Rhonda Adkins says

@highlight

Adkins was on his way to Alaska for singing and fishing(CNN) -- Ronald Reagan once joked, "Politics is not a bad profession. If you succeed, there are many rewards. If you disgrace yourself, you can always write a book."

Today, that joke would have to be updated to add that not only can you write a book, but you can also be on reality TV show, host cable news programs, run for office again and possibly even win.

Disgraced politicians never die. They're like Jason from the "Friday the 13th" movies -- you just can't kill them. They keep coming at you like the political version of zombies.

Sure, some fallen politicians still write books about their "adventures."

Former Ohio congressman Bob Ney recently made the rounds on the talk show circuit to promote his new memoir. Ney, who resigned in 2006, served more than a year in prison after pleading guilty to corruption charges in connection with the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal.

But books are nothing compared to the other ways sullied politicians can profit off of their newly found infamy.

Former New York Gov. Eliot Spitzer -- who resigned because he was caught frequenting prostitutes -- went on to host not one, but two different shows on cable TV. The first one was on CNN, and the second one was on Current TV.

Then there's exploiting your scandal in the time between when you're indicted and convicted of the crime. Former Texas congressman Tom DeLay -- while under indictment and awaiting a trial date -- appeared as a contestant on the hit TV show "Dancing with the Stars." DeLay was later convicted of campaign finance violations and money laundering.

But the guy who set the bar high for all disgraced politicians is former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich.

After being removed from office by the state legislature and while under indictment, Blagojevich wrote a book about his scandal, went on "The Daily Show" and "Letterman" and was a contestant on Season 9 of Donald Trump's "The Celebrity Apprentice." Blagojevich even appeared at the Wizard World Chicago Comic Con (a comic book convention), where he charged $50 for autographs and $80 for a photo with him. He was subsequently convicted of corruption charges and sentenced to 14 years in prison.

Among politicians who don't end up in jail, some try hard to become elected officials again. They want to go back to the very place that caused their problems. It's like a recovering drug addict asking to work at a meth lab -- not a good combo.

Just look at former South Carolina Gov. Mark Sanford, who is running to fill a recently vacated Congressional seat. As a refresher, Sanford disappeared for six days in 2009 while governor. At first, Sanford's office publicly stated that he was hiking the Appalachian Trail. However, we soon found out that he was actually in Argentina visiting the woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair.

Sanford seeks 'redemption' in wild congressional race

Sanford later paid $74,000 to settle charges that he had misused state resources and campaign funds in conducting his affair. However, Sanford refused to resign and completed his term.

Flash forward to March 19: Sanford came in first in a crowded field of Republicans in the GOP Congressional primary. Recent polls show him with a 10-point lead over his opponent in the Republican primary runoff scheduled for April 2.

Sanford's quest for forgiveness in return to political life

And don't forget Anthony Weiner, the former Democratic Congressman from New York City. As most people, and all comedians, vividly recall, Weiner had "accidentally" tweeted photos of himself in his underwear to a young woman on Twitter. Weiner later admitted to having non-sexual but "inappropriate" relationships with various women on social media. Weiner resigned from Congress a few weeks after the scandal broke in June 2011.

What's Weiner up to now? Apparently he has figured out how to use Twitter and is at least considering a return to politics. Weiner revealed he had spent more than $100,000 on polls recently to explore possibly running for office in New York City.

What does it say about us that these disgraced politicians have success -- however fleetingly -- after their scandals? Is it because we are a forgiving lot who believe in second chances if the person has sincerely apologized and seeks redemption? Or is it because we are all infected with the reality-show mindset where we reward fame regardless of how it's attained?

Plenty of people don't distinguish between whether a person is famous for good or bad reasons. All that matters is if a person has made it to that semi-exclusive club of celebritydom. After that, enough people will support the person to merit securing a book deal, being cast on a reality show and maybe run for office.

Look, I'm all for redemption and second chances. But I'm also aware that just like we saw with Jason in "Friday the 13th" movies, the longer he's alive, the more damage he will do.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

@highlight

Dean Obeidallah: Disgraced politicians can write a book, go on TV, run for office again

@highlight

Obeidallah: Fallen politicians never die, just like zombies

@highlight

Just think of Bob Ney, Eliot Spitzer, Tom DeLay, Rod Blagojevich, Mark Sanford, he says

@highlight

Obeidallah: Are we so forgiving because we reward fame regardless of how it's attained?(Mental Floss) -- As the economy continues to look grim, the word "bankruptcy" is on the tips of more and more tongues. While being unable to pay one's creditors is never a good situation for a company or an individual, it may not be the financial kiss of death that you might think. (Just ask Donald Trump, whose casinos have gone bankrupt twice.)

Abraham Lincoln was just one of several U.S. presidents who declared bankruptcy during their lifetimes.

A number of successful people have found themselves overextended and ended up filing for bankruptcy, only to successfully stick it out and find firmer financial footing again.

Here are a few famous names who knew what it's like to be strapped for cash:

1. Abraham Lincoln

His face may now appear on the penny, but at one time, Lincoln didn't have a single cent to spare. Lincoln tried many occupations as a young man, including buying a general store in New Salem, Illinois, in 1832.

While he may have been terrific at splitting rails, winning debates, and wearing stovepipe hats, Honest Abe wasn't much of a shopkeeper. Lincoln and his partner started buying out other stores' inventories on credit, but their own sales were dismal.  Mental Floss: How ex-presidents make ends meet

As the store's debts mounted, Lincoln sold his share, but when his partner died, the future President became liable for $1,000 in back payments. Lincoln didn't have modern bankruptcy laws to protect him, so when his creditors took him to court, he lost his two remaining assets: a horse and some surveying gear. That wasn't enough to foot his bill, though, and Lincoln continued paying off his debts until well into the 1840s.

Lincoln's not alone in the annals of bankrupt commanders-in-chief, though. Ulysses S. Grant went bankrupt after leaving office when a partner in an investment-banking venture swindled him.

Thomas Jefferson filed for bankruptcy several times, including after leaving office, possibly because he threw around a lot of cash on food and wine.

William McKinley went bankrupt while serving as Ohio's governor in 1893; he was $130,000 in the red before eventually straightening out with the help of friends. He won the White House just three years later. iReport.com: What are you doing to keep your job?

2. Henry Ford

Speculation abounds about the future of the Big Three motor companies, leading some observers to wonder what Henry Ford would think of this financial peril. Ford actually couldn't be too judgmental, though, because he was no stranger to debt himself.

In 1899 the young mechanic and engineer started the Detroit Automobile Company with the backing of three prominent politicians. Ford hadn't quite mastered the innovation and production techniques that would eventually make him rich, though. Over the next two years, Ford proved to be too much of a perfectionist, and his plant only produced 20 cars as he painstakingly tinkered with designs.

The enterprise went bankrupt in 1901 and reorganized into the Henry Ford Company later that year. Ford eventually left that group and finally got things right in 1903, when he founded the Ford Motor Company. Things didn't go so badly for the Henry Ford Company after he left, either; it changed its name into one you might find a bit more recognizable: the Cadillac Automobile Company.

Ford wasn't the only auto magnate who knew how bankruptcy felt, though. General Motors founder William Crapo Durant took a massive hit during the Great Depression that saw his fortune fall from $120 million to bankruptcy. He spent his last few years running a bowling alley in Flint, Michigan.

3. Walt Disney

His name may be a stalwart brand today, but early in his career, Disney was just a struggling filmmaker with too many bills. In 1922 he started his first film company with a partner in Kansas City, Kansas.

The two men bought a used camera and made short advertising films and cartoons under the studio name Laugh-O-Gram. Disney even signed a deal with a New York company to distribute the films he was producing. That arrangement didn't work out so well, though, as the distributor cheated Disney's studio.

Without the distributor's cash, Disney couldn't cover his overhead, and his studio went bankrupt in 1923. He then left Kansas City for Hollywood, and after a series of increasingly successful creations, Disney debuted a new character named Mickey Mouse in 1928. Mental Floss: The secrets behind your favorite toys

4. Milton Hershey

Milton Hershey always knew he could make candy, but running a successful business seemed just out of his reach. Although he never had a formal education, Hershey spent four years apprenticing in a candy shop before striking out on his own in Philadelphia in 1876.

Six years later, his shop went under, as did a subsequent attempt to peddle sweets in New York City. Hershey then returned home to Lancaster, Pennsylvania, where he pioneered the use of fresh milk in caramel productions and founded the successful Lancaster Caramel Company.

In 1900 he sold the caramel company for $1 million so he could focus on perfecting a milk chocolate formula. Once he finally nailed the recipe down, he was too rich (and too flush with delicious chocolate) for anyone to remember the flops of his early candy ventures.

5. Burt Reynolds

Burt Reynolds was one of Hollywood's biggest stars of the 1970s. Unfortunately, though, he spent money like his career would never hit a downswing. He owned mansions on both coasts, a helicopter, and a lavish Florida ranch.

Gradually, his financial situation got grimmer as he made boneheaded career choices and weathered a pricey divorce from Loni Anderson. By 1996, the Bandit owed $10 million to his creditors, and the royalties from "Cop and a Half" just weren't flowing in quickly enough. Reynolds declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy, from which he emerged in 1998.

Not only did he not have to sell his trademark mustache at auction to pay his bills, Reynolds even got to keep his Florida estate, Valhalla. This homestead exemption raised the ire of some observers who didn't think hanging on to a $2.5 million mansion while writing off $8 million in debt was quite in the spirit of bankruptcy laws' provisions about keeping one's home.

In fact, when the Senate passed measures tightening these loopholes in 2001, Reynolds' keeping his ranch was one of the examples they used to decry bankruptcy proceedings as going too easy on the wealthy. "There is no greater bankruptcy abuse than this," said Wisconsin Senator Herb Kohl.

6. H.J. Heinz

When Heinz was just 25 years old, he and two partners began a company that made horseradish. As the legend goes, the spicy root was the first of Heinz's famed 57 varieties, but it wasn't as lucrative as he'd hoped. A business panic in 1875 bankrupted his enterprise, but Heinz's passion for condiments remained strong.

The very next year, Heinz got together with his brother and a cousin to start a new company in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The reorganized group started making ketchup, and the business took off. Last year the H.J. Heinz Company had over $10 billion in revenue.

7. P.T. Barnum

Famous showman P.T. Barnum was always quick with a quip, but he wasn't so snappy about paying back his loans. Although he was successful showing off oddities in New York and around the globe, Barnum had a habit of borrowing cash from anyone who would open their wallet for him.   Mental Floss: 12 oddball museums preserving our history

He'd use these funds to buy real estate, particularly around Bridgeport, Connecticut, where he was trying to foster industrial development. Unfortunately for Barnum, he went too far with borrowed cash, and in 1855, things bottomed out. Barnum was bankrupt and owed his creditors nearly half a million dollars.

Barnum didn't give up, though, and he slowly worked himself out of debt over the next five years. The showman gave lectures around England about showmanship and making money, and he regained control of his main attraction, The American Museum in New York City, in 1860.

In 1871, just a few months shy of his 61st birthday, Barnum entered the circus business with Barnum's Grand Traveling Museum, Menagerie, Caravan, and Circus, which raked in over $400,000 in its first year.

For more mental_floss articles, visit mentalfloss.com

Entire contents of this article copyright, Mental Floss LLC. All rights reserved.

@highlight

Milton Hershey's first candy shop went bankrupt

@highlight

Burt Reynolds had to file for bankruptcy after he spent more than he earned

@highlight

A business panic in 1875 bankrupted H.J. Heinz's first enterprise

@highlight

P.T. Barnum had a bad habit of borrowing cash and not paying it backLos Angeles (CNN) -- The Miss Universe organization announced Tuesday it is ending its ban on transgender contestants after coming under scrutiny recently when a Canadian competitor was told she would be disqualified because she was born male.

Miss Universe officials insist the change is in spite of, not because of, legal threats from women's rights lawyer Gloria Allred made on behalf of contestant Jenna Talackova.

"We made the decision two days before we even heard that (Allred) was involved," pageant owner Donald Trump told CNN Monday. "Had I known she was involved, maybe I wouldn't have made that decision because she's easy to beat."

Allred launched a blistering attack on Trump at a news conference a week ago, saying his pageant had no right to question Talackova's sexuality.

"She did not ask Mr. Trump to prove that he is a naturally born man or to see photos of his birth to view his anatomy to prove that he was male," Allred said.

In a Twitter posting Monday, Trump called Allred a "third rate lawyer" who "actually hurts Jenna."

"Is Gloria a man or a woman????---- few men would know the answer to that one," Trump tweeted in a personal retort to Allred.

Allred did not immediately respond to CNN's request for a response to Trump's attack.

The Miss Universe Pageant announced last week that Talackova, 23, could compete provided "she meets the legal gender recognition requirements of Canada, and the standards established by other international competitions."

Allred had criticized that announcement, saying the conditions were "ambigious." Trump later said Talackova could compete without conditions, but stopped short of a permanent rule change.

Miss Universe President Paula Shugart, in a statement released Tuesday, said the credit for lifting the ban should go to the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD), not Allred.

"The decision to include transgender women in our beauty competitions is a result of our ongoing discussions with GLAAD and not Jenna's legal representation, which if anything delayed the process," Shugart said. "We have a long history of supporting equality for all women, and this was something we took very seriously."

Shugart joined GLAAD in a joint announcement Tuesday that the Miss Universe Organization "is close to finalizing an official policy change that will allow women who are transgender to participate in its beauty competitions."

Discussions between the pageant and GLAAD began last month after news reports that Talackova had been disqualified from the Miss Canada Universe competition after winning a regional title, the joint statement said.

The resulting change opens this fall's 2013 pageant season to transgender women, it said.

"For more than two weeks, the Miss Universe Organization and Mr. Trump made it clear to GLAAD that they were open to making a policy change to include women who are transgender," said GLAAD spokesman Herndon Graddick.

"We appreciate that (Trump) and his team responded swiftly and appropriately," Graddick said.

Talackova, a 6-foot-1-inch blond Canadian, underwent sexual reassignment surgery four years ago. In a 2010 interview, she said she knew she was a girl at age 4. She said she started hormone therapy at age 14 and underwent sexual reassignment surgery at 19.

She won a regional beauty crown qualifying her for Canada's national title, but she was then told the Miss Canada Universe pageant in Toronto on May 19 was only open to "naturally born females."

"I am a woman," Talackova said in a prepared statement she read to reporters in Allred's conference room last week. "I was devastated and I felt that excluding me for the reason that they gave was unjust."

@highlight

The pageant group says the decision came before Gloria Allred made legal threats

@highlight

Allred attacked the pageant for disqualifying Jenna Talackova because she was born a man

@highlight

The change opens the 2013 pageant season to transgender women(CNN)Golf's landscape has changed in myriad ways since Tiger Woods launched his design business in 2006.

Back then he was the game's bulldozer, barging inferior players out of the way in an all-out assault to overhaul Jack Nicklaus' tally of 18 majors and cement his title as the best of all time.

Tiger Woods Design was supposed to form another facet of his burgeoning legacy; a series of lasting monuments to augment his immense standing within golf.

Except the best laid plans of men often go awry.

Woods hasn't won a major since the scandal that engulfed his private life in 2008 and only now, nearly a decade on from the inception of his design arm, is one of his plots open for business.

With the verdict still out on whether he can recapture that magical form, and fatherhood having altered his outlook on life, the concept of legacy is very much back on the agenda.

"My goal is to design a limited number of distinct and memorable golf courses," Woods told CNN in an exclusive interview.

"I hope that one day the courses I design will become a lasting contribution to the game that has given me so much."

Architects forever talk about "moving earth" when it comes to course layout, and the sands have undoubtedly shifted under Woods' feet.

After locking down 14 majors in a nine-year spell, the former world No. 1 (and current No. 47) has just five top 10 finishes in them across the last five injury-hit seasons.

The benefits of those spells in rehab has been more time to dedicate to design, culminating in Woods' first opening at Cabo San Lucas in Mexico just before Christmas.

And though there might have been an eight-year wait for his first completed course, which has been well received, the second should be along within eight months.

It will represent an important landmark too -- his first opening in the United States, at Bluejack National in Houston.

The fact that Woods' design operation is finally laying down roots across the Americas has taken on an extra significance, with his kids now of an age when they can start to play alongside their all-star dad.

"He's obviously won a whole bunch of tournaments and major championships, and they remain very important to him," says Michael Abbott, partner of Beacon Land Development -- the company that's building Bluejack National's course -- and a friend of Woods for over 20 years.

"But to be able to take his kids Charlie and Sam to a golf course he's done is also very important to him."

Abbott agrees that a large slice of Tiger Woods Design is about legacy. "I think so. I think he's very proud and he wants to share that with not only those close to him but also everybody else.

"To say this is what I've learned and this is my creativity and now I'm putting it on the ground for you to see."

Perhaps unsurprisingly, the junior Woods are showing early signs of promise, much to the delight of their proud father.

"I saw as much of his son Charlie's swing as I did of his over the time we spent together (at the opening of the El Cardonal course in Mexico)," Abbott explained. "He'd say 'Come look at this -- this is the way I want to swing right here.'

"Tiger talks about the old days when he and his father used to go and play the short course in California and how the short course at Bluejack reminds him of that -- the ability for young girls and boys to come out and play and challenge themselves but also have pure fun.

"He also built junior tees into the course at Bluejack -- that tells you everything."

Woods, who began his 2015 season in Phoenix on Thursday, is still active in his pursuit of Nicklaus' bumper haul of major titles.

But he won't be trying to match the prolific nature of "The Golden Bear" when it comes to rolling courses off the production line at an exponential rate.

The majority of Nicklaus Design's 380 properties are in the U.S. while others are dotted around the globe in far flung places such as China, Russia, Nicaragua, Japan, Costa Rica and New Zealand.

Woods' dedication to recapturing the heights he reached in the early part of the decade prevent him from taking on too much but even after he retires, he insists he'll only pick projects that mean something to him.

"Golf course design has always been something that I have been interested in," Woods, who attempted his first design for a magazine competition aged nine, explained.

"It wasn't until my 10th year on tour, after having success on different types of courses all over the world, that I had the knowledge and experience to start Tiger Woods Design.

"I see it continuing to be very selective, looking for only the best sites and partners to work with, even after my golf career slows down."

That the fruits of Woods' design labor are only starting to emerge has much to do with the financial downturn of 2008.

Several projects have been on the table for some time; The Cliffs in North Carolina and Punta Brava in Mexico are yet to yield a completion date.

A much-trumpeted project in Dubai was shelved in 2011 due to funding problems, though Woods recently announced he was teaming up with Donald Trump for another go at building in the Emirate.

And while he has been enlisted to build another course at Cabo San Lucas, one industry expert thinks Woods needs to go further if his design arm is to enhance his standing in the game.

"I can't see Tiger's design business affecting his legacy unless he gets a project that really moves the dial," Adam Lawrence, editor of Golf Course Architecture magazine, told CNN.

"Either a site where he and his team can build something that is universally viewed as one of the best courses in the world -- which presupposes they have the ability to do so, something that hasn't be proven yet -- or alternatively they do something that has a real impact on golf's development.

"With the best will in the world, you don't change golf by building extremely expensive resort courses in Cabo, an ultra-high end residential project in Houston or a monster expensive course to be run by Donald Trump in Dubai."

Lawrence also believes Woods might also benefit -- not just himself, but also the game of golf itself -- by looking at designing a course in the BRIC countries.

"I would like to see Tiger take on a low budget project in an emerging market," he added. "A Tiger-branded course in India, or Brazil -- but a proper, public access, cheap golf course and not a fancy housing development -- could really impact on how golf grows in that market."

Those projects in developing nations may well come down the line but listening to Woods, it is clear he believes Bluejack National could enter the pantheon of great U.S. courses when it opens for business.

"Bluejack National has one of the best natural settings for golf I have seen," he said.

"With its changes in elevation, the beautiful pines and hardwoods, Bluejack National is reminiscent of the pinelands of Georgia and the Carolinas.

"The opportunity is here to create a golf course unlike any other in the Houston area, and our goal is for it to be among the best in the nation."

Due for completion in October, Woods has been making regular visits to the site near the small town of Montgomery in Texas.

Abbott says he has been struck by Woods' willingness to take other opinions on board and how in tune he is with those players at the other end of the skill spectrum to himself.

"Bluejack National is spectacular and I think it's incredibly special that this is his first course in the United States," Abbott said.

"When I first talked to Tiger he mentioned the playability; this one cut of turf, how you create great vistas and how all levels of players can find some success.

"When Tiger Woods goes in, he goes all the way. He doesn't do anything half way, he's an all-in guy and that's reflected in his work ethic on and off the course.

"This is important to him -- he feels like he's designing golf courses that will be meaningful because it will encourage people to play the game.

"At Bluejack he's taken it to an even further level where he's designed this playground section, a nine-hole short course that is spectacular. He's also designed four little loops that help if you only had an hour or two to play.

"Not only is he tackling golf course design from the angle of making it playable he's also tackling it from people's time commitments to be able to play, whether it is someone who wants a couple hours on the course, a corporate person entertaining a guest or a father and daughter.

"He's taken time investment and really put it into his design so you ask 'Is the guy in tune?' When a designer thinks that way I think he's in tune."

Still, any jobbing golfer standing on the first tee of a Woods-designed course could be forgiven for sweating with a mixture of fear and reverence.

Woods' litany of career titles have been secured on a collection of the world's most fiendish courses, giving him ample ammunition when it came to sketching out his own ideas.

But his emphasis on "playability" essentially says to the amateur -- 'I've got your back.'

"I have played enough pro-ams over the years to know not every golfer is a scratch handicap," Woods said.

"Designing golf courses that players of all skill levels find enjoyable is very important to me. The biggest compliment that a designer can receive is if a golfer can't wait to play his golf course again."

Abbott is happy to talk legacy, but he's also keen to stress that Woods still has plenty left in his playing locker.

Having watched him take on a collection of journalists during the opening of El Cardonal, Abbott says Woods' swing has its "speed and power back."

"I'm absolutely backing Tiger to bag some more majors," he said, ominously. "It's exciting to see him play this way.

"He's determined. The appetite is still there -- it's like he's never eaten before."

@highlight

Tiger Woods' design business is to form a significant part of the golfer's legacy

@highlight

Despite starting the company in 2006 his first course opened in December 2014

@highlight

Woods first course in the United States is due to open in Houston in OctoberLOS ANGELES, California (CNN) -- Carrie Prejean has been dethroned as Miss California USA for "contract violations," including missing scheduled pageant events, according to a state pageant official.

Donald Trump poses with Carrie Prejean in May. Prejean was removed as Miss California USA on Wednesday.

Prejean, 22, retained her title last month despite a controversy over topless photos, missed appearances and her statements against same-sex marriage.

Miss USA pageant owner Donald Trump decided to fire Prejean a month after he gave her a second chance.

"Carrie is a beautiful young woman, and I wish her well as she pursues her other interests," Trump said.

Runner-up Tami Farrell, who was Miss Malibu, will immediately assume the Miss California USA title, state pageant Executive Director Keith Lewis said.

"This was a decision based solely on contract violations, including Ms. Prejean's unwillingness to make appearances on behalf of the Miss California USA organization," he said.  Watch the new Miss California talk about the developments »

Lewis told CNN's Larry King on Wednesday that it wasn't one thing Prejean did, but "many, many, many things."

"She came to us and said, 'I'm not interested in your input; I'll make my own decision what I'm going to do,' " Lewis said. "You know, when you have a contract, when you're working for someone, you have a responsibility to follow through on what that requirement is."

Lewis told King it was clear "she was not interesting in upholding the title or the responsibilities."

Trump brought Prejean and Lewis together in New York for a meeting last month, after which he announced that communications between the beauty queen and pageant officials had been repaired.

"I told Carrie she needed to get back to work and honor her contract with the Miss California USA organization, and I gave her the opportunity to do so," Trump said. "Unfortunately, it just doesn't look like it is going to happen, and I offered Keith my full support in making this decision."

Charles Limandri, Prejean's lawyer, said she learned about the decision Wednesday morning in a phone call from Trump's office.

"This is all kind of a big shock," Limandri said. "We've been working with Mr. Trump's office. She's been doing all the speaking engagements she's been asked to do. It is not true that she has not been cooperating."

No one from the pageant organization ever warned Prejean she was not doing what they wanted, he said.

"Something is going on," he said. "Truth is not being told. I don't understand where this is coming from, or why."

"For people to say that she breached her contract, that she is not doing speaking engagements is false," he said. "She did one last Sunday in Las Vegas and it went really well."

Prejean stepped into controversy at the Miss USA pageant in April when she declared her opposition to same-sex marriage in a response to a question asked during the national pageant by Perez Hilton, a pageant judge. Prejean finished as first runner-up, but it was not clear if her answer cost her the crown.

During a radio interview Wednesday with Billy Bush, who also was host of the pageant, Prejean said it was that controversy that led to her losing her title, not contract issues.

"It's just because of my answer, I think," Prejean told Bush. "None of this would be happening right now if I just said yeah, gays should get married, you're right Perez Hilton."

Wednesday night on Larry King, Bush asked the new Miss California USA the question that sparked controversy for Prejean. Bush asked Tami Farrell whether in light of several states allowing gay marriage she thought other states should do the same.

"I think it's a personal decision and a civil rights issue," Farrell said. "It's something we should let each state decide."

In addition to Prejean's gay marriage answer, controversy boiled to a new level in early May when seminude photos of Prejean appeared on gossip Web sites.

Miss California USA officials -- some of them outspoken advocates of same-sex marriage -- suggested the photos breached the contract Prejean signed with the pageant. These officials also complained they couldn't reach Prejean and she had missed important pageant events.

The controversy seemed over when Trump declared the pictures not to be too racy and Prejean promised to do better in communicating with the state pageant.

Hilton, the judge who asked the same-sex question during the pageant, cheered Prejean's firing.

"Better late than never," Hilton said.

Shanna Moakler, a former Miss USA who resigned as co-executive director of the California pageant when Trump did not dismiss Prejean last month, welcomed Wednesday's decision.

"First and foremost, my faith has been restored in the Miss Universe organization and with Donald Trump," Moakler said. "I believed eventually what I intimately knew would come to fruition."

@highlight

NEW: Prejean tells Billy Bush she thinks gay marriage answer was reason for firing

@highlight

"Better late than never," Perez Hilton says of Carrie Prejean's firing

@highlight

Prejean was Miss California USA, controversial due to statements, topless photos

@highlight

Runner-up Tami Farrell will take over as Miss California USA(CNN) -- An interview with a choreographer for the Miss Universe pageant spurred controversy Wednesday over alleged claims that Donald Trump personally selects some of the finalists.

Donald Trump is at the center of a brewing controversy over the Miss Universe finalists.

The Q&A with Michael Schwandt, which appeared on Guanabee.com, quotes him as saying that "it's just kind of common knowledge that [Trump] picks six of the top 15 single-handedly."

"And, his reason for doing so, as he told me and he's told the girls before, is that he left it all up to preliminary judging in the past, and some of the most beautiful women, in his opinion, were not in the top 15, and he was kind of upset about that," the story quotes Schwandt as saying. "And he decided that he would pick a certain number and let the judges pick a certain number."

Via e-mail, Schwandt said that he "was speaking in hypothetical jest" when he said Trump picks some of the finalists and said the mogul has never spoken to either him, or any of his team, about the selection process.

"The story posted on that site contains many misquotes and [is] highly inaccurate," Schwandt wrote. "I would like to disassociate myself from it completely and anything negative in regards to Miss Universe or even suggesting that Donald Trump 'rigs' his event. I'm perplexed as to why Guanabee.com would run a story such as this when they are aware that it is inaccurate."

Daniel Mauser, publisher of Guanabee, said his site stands by the story, which resulted after Schwandt was contacted about his role choreographing both the pageant and a much talked-about performance by reality-star-turned-singer Heidi Montag.

"Whatever you see quoted in the article is verbatim what he said," Mauser said. "So I can understand why he would want to retract those words, but unfortunately that was what was said."

A statement from Miss Universe Organization President Paula M. Shugart, released Wednesday, said that "to suggest the pageant is somehow orchestrated or 'rigged' is utterly false and misleading."

However, the statement also observed that Trump does play a role in selecting the finalists.

"In the 2009 Miss Universe competition, a preliminary panel of judges selected nine of the Top 15 and members of the Miss Universe Organization, including owner Donald J. Trump, selected the remaining six," the statement began.

The statement went on to say that "a separate panel of judges, introduced live at the Finals telecast, is solely responsible for the selection of the Top 10, Top 5 and the ultimate winner of the pageant."

"This system has been in place since 2005 and has always been fully disclosed to the contestants, their directors, the judges and the viewing audience," the statement said. "The procedure is overseen by the accounting firm of Ernst & Young and NBC Program Standards and Compliance. To in any way call into question the integrity of the judging process or suggest the pageant is somehow orchestrated or 'rigged' is utterly false and misleading."

Mauser describes Guanabee as an "entertainment Web site for the Hispanic community that covers the interests and portrayals of acculturated Hispanics in this country."

The Miss Universe pageant is very popular in the Hispanic community, Mauser said, and the story took a different turn after the alleged comments were published.

Schwandt, who has choreographed the pageant for the past few years, said in an e-mail to CNN that although Trump does meet with the contestants before the televised pageant, as far as he knows, it is just a gesture on Trump's part in his role as producer of the pageant.

"I know the Miss Universe Organization goes to great lengths to establish a preliminary and final panel of judges as well as different factors on which contestants are judged," Schwandt wrote. "However, I'm the last person to be quoted as saying anything in regard to the judging or selecting process, I'm the choreographer, I deal with that."

@highlight

Miss Universe choreographer's interview sparks controversy

@highlight

Michael Schwandt says he was misquoted

@highlight

President of organization calls claims of rigging "false and misleading"