Sarah Palin's teleprompter did freeze in Iowa on Saturday, the former Alaska governor claimed during a Tuesday night interview in which a Fox News Channel host asked her about her rambling and at times incoherent speech that sent her political stock plummeting.

The admission came in a freewheeling television segment with Host Sean Hannity in which she declared war on his fellow host Bill O'Reilly for not taking her and real estate tycoon Donald Trump seriously as politicians. 

Palin also downplayed reports from days earlier that she was planning to run for president in the first place.

'I was asked by a testy reporter while I was promoting my Sportsman Channel show, "Amazing America with Sarah Palin",' the self-promoting pol told Fox host Sean Hannity. 'I was asked if I were to be interested at all in running for office, maybe the presidency.'

'And it's certainly not newsworthy,' she added with a shrug and an eye roll, 'for me to have answered, "Oh yeah, I'm interested, yeah. Next question?"

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEOS

WHO, ME? Former VP nominee Sarah Palin insisted Tuesday night that she didn't really mean to say she's interested in the presidency – unless Fox host Bill O'Reilly is belittling her (then she's totally IN!)

REVISIONIST HISTORY: Sean Hannity (left) asked Palin if her teleprompter malfunctioned on Saturday in Iowa and she said it had, just like during her 2008 acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention – but reporters who witnessed that speech said the prompter worked fine back then

'The man can only ride you when your back is bent,' Palin said during her rambling speech Saturday in Iowa after the prompter DID freeze, as audience members looked at each other quizzically

Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, made news on Saturday when she flipped through a binder of notes and strung together a series of odd one-liners after her teleprompter went on the fritz at the Iowa Freedom Summit, leaving her audience confused even as some rooted for her.

But she defended herself Tuesday night on Fox News.

'Did the teleprompter go down? Did you have trouble with the copy?' Hannity asked her. 'Was there any moment in the speech where you had any difficulty? Because people have been so critical.' 

Palin insisted that 'I don't read the praise and I don't read the criticism. ... I'm used to teleprompters not working.'

'Remember the GOP acceptance speech back in '08? The teleprompter broke there too. It didn't work, and I kept on going.'

That's an exaggeration, according to journalists who were in Minneapolis, Minnesota the night she accepted the role as Arizona Sen. John McCain's running mate that would vault her onto the national stage.

'The teleprompter did not break,' reporter Jonathan Martin, then of Politico, wrote at the time. 'Sarah Palin delivered a powerful speech last night, but she did not "wing it".' 

'I was sitting in the press section next to the stage, within easy eyeshot of the teleprompter,' he wrote. 'I frequently looked up at the machine, and there was no serious malfunction. A top convention planner confirms this morning that there were no major problems.'

US News & World Report blogger Robert Schlesinger wrote much the same thing: that he was 'was sitting in the press section, (behind Palin and off to her right side). I had a clear view of the TelePrompTer, and read along with her.'

In Saturday's Iowa speech, however, she was indeed improvising. (This reporter, sitting above her in the front row of the stage-right balcony, saw the prompter freeze – and stay frozen.) 

'The man can only ride you when your back is bent,' she said at one point, as audience members looked at each other quizzically.

'So strengthen it! Then the man can't ride you, America won't get taken for a ride, because so much is at stake.'

BEWILDERED: Palin's audience often seemed unsure what to make of her as she babbled and danced from subject to subject making little sense

On Tuesday she lashed out at Bill O'Reilly for treating her and Donald Trump like long-shot candidates – insisting that a cable network perceived to lean right should back her all the way

Addressing the controversy over the virtues of the late Navy SEAL Chris Kyle and the 'American Sniper' film that tells his life story, she shouted: “Screw the left in Hollywood!'

And at one point she lashed out at Muslim terrorists in a style all her own.  

'What we do is strengthen our military,' she said. 'We respect our troops and let them – our troops as our gatekeepers – we let them tell jihadists, "Uh-uh, this is our house! Get the hell out".'

The 35-minute performance was so uneven that Democratic National Committee Communications Director Mo Elleithee issued a two-word statement afterward: 'Thank you!'

Palin spoke at the Iowa event alongside a host of others whose names have been floated as potential GOP candidates, including Ted Cruz, Chris Christie and Mike Huckabee.

Her position near the end of the lineup indicated that the event's hosts, Citizens United and Iowa Congressman Steve King, hoped the Alaskan would be a showstopper.

She nearly stopped the entire show.

Palin, a Fox News contributor, took a shot at top-rated host Bill O'Reilly on Tuesday for dismissing her as a third'tier potential candidate, even as she sought to distance herself from any expectation that she might run.

FOX & FRENEMIES: Fox host Bill O'Reilly dismissed Palin and Trump on Tuesday as third-tier politicians who merely 'liven up the proceedings'

Trump, a multibillionaire real estate tycoon, says he's serious about throwing his hat in the ring this time around, after several previous campaigns where he folded his tent before the process got properly underway

O'Reilly had handicapped the fast-moving Republican primary season two hours earlier, saying that 'Sarah Palin and Donald Trump certainly liven up the proceedings, but they need effective organizations in 50 states and that will be a major challenge for them.'

Palin wasn't amused, and lashed out at him for not siding with her and other conservatives.

'Hillary will be running,' she said, referring to Democratic former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, 'and she will be, you know, the knighted candidate on the left and with the media.'

'Knowing what the media is going to do, It's gonna take more than a village to beat Hillary. There needs to be unity, understanding that we have that – conservatives have that strike against us, you know, right off the bat.'

She complained about how O'Reilly had been teasing his show all day on Fox, which she labeled 'kind of a quasi- or assumed-conservative outlet,' 

'And that would be, "Oh, all these GOP contenders thinking about running for president – like Donald Trump, Sarah Palin." And he names 'em off, he says, "Oh, what a reality show that would be! Yuk, yuk!"'

'Well the left doesn't do that, okay? They, they, they take this serious, because this is war! And hopefully the media, even the quasi-right side of the media, won't be looking at this as some kind of reality show, a joke.' 

 

@highlight

Former Alaska governor and tea party darling gave a confusing speech on Saturday in Iowa, rambling after her teleprompter froze

@highlight

She said Tuesday that her teleprompter broke during her 2008 vice presidential nomination acceptance speech too, 'and I kept on going' – an account disputer by reporters who were there

@highlight

Appearing on 'Hannity,' Palin blasted his fellow host Bill O'Reilly for not taking her and real estate tycoon Donald Trump seriously as politicians

@highlight

'He says, "Oh, what a reality show that would be! Yuk, yuk!" Well, the left doesn't do that, okay?' she carped

@highlight

But she also downplayed news stories saying she was seriously thinking about a White House campaign, blaming 'a testy reporter'

@highlight

O'Reilly had said Palin and real estate mogul Donald Trump merely 'liven up the proceedings' By 
Laura Pullman

PUBLISHED:

19:01 EST, 3 April 2012

 | 

UPDATED:

05:42 EST, 4 April 2012

Celebrity lawyer Gloria Allred would be 'very impressed' with Donald Trump’s manhood according to....the man himself.

He made the boast as part of the ongoing saga over the transsexual beauty queen Jenna Talackova, who was thrown out of Miss Universe Canada last month - before being allowed to compete again this week.

The organization now argues that Talackova was disqualified for lying in her application form but initially - before the media backlash - they said she was kicked out because she was not born a woman.

Today, Allred argued that her beauty queen client had not challenged Trump, who owns the pageant, to prove that he was a naturally-born man or to display his genitals.

Scroll down for video

All woman: Gloria Allred argued her transgendered client - who was thrown out of a beauty pageant owned by Donald Trump - never asked to see Donald Trump's genitals

'Very impressed': Trump has boasted that the celebrity lawyer would be 'very impressed' if he were to show off his manhood to her - 'she would have a whole new image of Donald Trump,' he added

Talackova and Allred held a press 
conference today where the lawyer argued that her client 'didn’t ask Mr.
Trump to prove he's a naturally born man, or see photos of his birth, 
or to view his anatomy ... It made no difference to her.'

But Trump appears keen to prove his manhood and called TMZ to say Gloria would be ‘very, very, very, very impressed’ if he were to display his genitals.

‘I think she would have a whole new image of Donald Trump,’ he continued.

During the phone call the billionaire refused to apologise to Talackova and repeated that she would be allowed to come back into the competition – but added that ‘he couldn’t care less’ if she competes.

Proof: Talackova holds up her passport which declares her as a 'female'

The comments are likely to enrage the 
high-powered lawyer who is famous for taking the cases of celebrity 
clients including several of Tiger Woods’ ex-lovers and Nicole Brown 
Simpson’s family during the O.J. Simpson murder trial.

Jenna Talackova, 23, was thrown out of the pageant, founded by Donald Trump, when organisers found out she had undergone surgery to become a woman.

Officials denied charges of discrimination and said the reason why a male-to-female transgender contestant could not compete was because Miss Talackova lied on her application form.

Beauty Queen: Talackova was thrown out the Miss Universe Canada when organizers found out she was born a boy, the photograph on the right was quickly taken off the pageant's website

However Miss Universe authorities have appeared to have a change of heart after claiming the young woman had been 'dishonest'.

Rethink: Transgendered Miss Universe Canada finalist Jenna Talackova has been allowed back into the competition

Michael D Cohen, executive vice president and special counsel to Donald Trump, wrote in an email to ABC: 'The Miss Universe Organization will allow Jenna Talackova to compete in the 2012 Miss Universe Canada pageant provided she meets the legal gender recognition requirements of Canada, and the standards established by other international competitions.'

The transgendered contestant had already successfully reached the finals in the Miss Vancouver pageant before she was banned from continuing in the competition.

After becoming suspicious, director Denis Davila questioned Ms Talackova, 23, who said that, even though she written on her application that she had been born a female, that was not the case.

'We have to have the facts straight. There is no discrimination here at all,' Mr Davila said.

'You can look at it the way she wants to look at it, but we all have to follow the same rules.'

Following her expulsion from the competition, organizers faced much criticism with many fans saying that they were blatantly discriminatory.

Over 20,000 people signed a virtual petition on Change.org calling for organizers to reverse their decision.

The original decision from the Miss Universe Canada pageant sparked outrage with people calling for Jenna to be reinstated into the contest.

People took to social media pages to express their disgust with one Facebook user writing on the pageant's page: 'Tell us what "requirements" did she not make? This reeks of discrimination...'

In a YouTube interview, Miss Talackova has said she knew she was a female at the age of four and began hormone therapy ten years later.

All woman: Jenna Talackova, 23, (pictured right in 2010 with Miss Korea, left) will now be allowed to enter Miss Universe Canada

A
veteran beauty pageant competitor, who has participated in Miss 
Universe pageants before, Miss Talackova surgically changed 
her gender aged 19.

‘I regard myself as a woman with a history,’ she said, winking to the camera.

The only requirements stated on the Miss Universe Canada website is that to enter, women must be a Canadian citizen and between the ages of 18 and 27.

The application made no mention of rules regarding sexual reassignment surgery.

Beauty queen: Jenna Talackova, fourth from right, has competed in a Miss Universe contest before

Watch video here

@highlight

Jenna Talackova, 23, had been thrown out after organisers discovered she had surgery to become a woman

@highlight

She has now been allowed back into the competitionBy 
Associated Press and Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

22:57 EST, 24 August 2013


| 

UPDATED:

12:00 EST, 25 August 2013

New York's attorney general has sued Donald Trump for $40 million, claiming the real estate mogul helped run a phony 'Trump University' that falsely promised to make students rich.

Instead, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said that the university steered them into expensive and mostly useless seminars, and even failed to deliver promised apprenticeships.

After the lawsuit was filed on Saturday, Trump shot back that it is false and politically motivated.

Schneiderman says many of the 5,000 students who paid up to $35,000 thought they would at least meet Trump but instead all they got was their picture taken in front of a life-size picture of him.

'Trump University engaged in deception at every stage of consumers' advancement through costly programs and caused real financial harm,' Schneiderman said.

Beleaguered: Donald Trump, pictured with his university emblem in May 2005, has been sued for $40 million after a lawsuit claims the classes were mostly useless and failed to live up to their promises

'Trump University, with Donald Trump's knowledge and participation, relied on Trump's name recognition and celebrity status to take advantage of consumers who believed in the Trump brand.'

State Education Department officials told Trump to change the name of his enterprise years ago, saying it 
lacked a license and didn't meet the legal definitions of a university.

In 2011 it was renamed the 'Trump Entrepreneur Institute', but it has since been
dogged by complaints from consumers and a few civil 
lawsuits claiming it didn't fulfill its advertised claims.

Schneiderman's
lawsuit covers complaints dating to 2005 through 2011 and it claims that students paid 
between $1,495 and $35,000 to learn from the mogul.

Complaint: New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman brought the suit against Trump

He said the 
three-day seminars failed to teach consumers everything they 
needed to know about real estate, as the 'university' had promised. The Trump University manual tells 
instructors not to let consumers 'think three days will be enough to 
make them successful', Schneiderman said.

At the seminars, 
consumers were told about 'Trump Elite' mentorships that cost $10,000 to
$35,000 in which students were promised individual instruction until they made 
their first deal.

Schneiderman said participants were urged to extend 
the limit on their credit cards for real estate deals, but then used the
credit to pay for the Trump Elite programs.

The attorney general said 
the program also failed to promptly cancel memberships as promised.

The lawsuit added that many of students were unable to land even one real estate deal and were left far 
worse off than before the lessons, facing thousands of dollars in debt.

But
Trump's attorney accused Schneiderman of trying to extort campaign 
contributions from the real estate mogul through his investigation.

Attorney Michael D. Cohen told The Associated Press on Saturday that Schneiderman's lawsuit was filled with falsehoods. Cohen insisted that Trump and his university never defrauded anyone.

'The attorney general has been angry 
because he felt that Mr. Trump and his various companies should have 
done much more for him in terms of fundraising,' Cohen said. 'This 
entire investigation is politically motivated and it is a tremendous 
waste of taxpayers' money.'

Angered: Trump accused the attorney general of being politically motivated with his lawsuit and said it was a way for Schneiderman to try to extort campaign contributions from him

State Board of Elections records show Trump has spent more than $136,000 on New York campaigns since 2010.

He contributed $12,500 to Schneiderman in October 2010, when Schneiderman was running for attorney general, records show.

An outspoken conservative, Trump himself flirted with a presidential run last year.

'Donald Trump will not sit back and be extorted by anyone, including the attorney general,' Cohen said.

Schneiderman is suing the program, Trump as the university chairman, and the former president of the university in a case to be handled in state Supreme Court in Manhattan.

He accuses them of engaging in persistent fraud, illegal and deceptive conduct and violating federal consumer protection law. The $40 million he seeks is mostly to pay restitution to consumers.

He dismissed Trump's claim of a political motive.

'The fact that he's still brave enough to follow the investigation wherever it may lead speaks to Mr. Schneiderman's character,' Schneiderman spokesman Andrew Friedman told AP.

@highlight

Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has accused university of encouraging students to pay for expensive, useless seminars

@highlight

Students paid as much as $35,000 to attend the university

@highlight

Trump has claimed that the suit is politically motivatedBy 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

23:28 EST, 16 June 2013


| 

UPDATED:

11:01 EST, 17 June 2013

The beautiful 25-year-old from Connecticut who was last night crowned Miss USA is not just a pretty face it seems as it was revealed today that she is an accountant.

Erin Brady beat out 51 other beauty queens from across the country when she was announced as the winner of the beauty pageant at Planet Hollywood hotel-casino in Las Vegas.

And she said she was looking forward to telling her bosses at Prudnetial Financial that she would not be coming in today - or ever again.

The Central Connecticut State University finance major wore an elegant white and gold gown as she was given her crown by last year's winner Miss Maryland, Nana Meriwether.

Scroll down for video

Hooray: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady reacts as she is crowned by Miss USA 2012 Nana Meriwether during the Miss USA pageant at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada

Winner: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady, center, beat 50 other hopefuls to win

Emotional: Miss Connecticut USA 2013 Erin Brady was overcome when she was announced as Miss USA 2013 on Sunday night

Crown: Brady, center, is congratulated by other contestants after being crowned during the Miss USA pageant at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada

Poser: Erin Brady poses at a news conference after being crowned Miss USA 2013 at the Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Las Vegas

Screams: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady cradles a bunch of flowers as she is crowned by Nana Meriwether

Modelling days: It is Erin's goal to help break the cycle of addiction as she plans to be an advocate for children of alcohol and substance abuse

Childhood: Erin was raised in a home heavily influenced by alcohol and substance abuse and she sadly remembers the lack of support and places to turn to for the children of addicts, such as her

Siblings: Her father Francis said he always knew his math-oriented daughter was a glamour girl. She and her sisters used to strut around and pretend they were beauty queens

Earlier, judge and personality Mo Rocca said he was looking for a winner who reminded him of Abraham Lincoln 'without the beard'.

Brady impressed the judges by answering a question about the U.S. Supreme Court's decision to uphold 
widespread DNA tests. Asked if she agreed with the decision, Brady said 
she did.

But her fellow contestant Miss Utah, Marissa Powell did not fare so well when asked she was posed a question by a panelist - her amusing response has now gone viral.

She was asked: 'A recent report shows
that in 40 per cent of American families with children, women are the 
primary earners yet they continue to earn less than men. What does this 
say about society?"

Miss Powell nodded, paused and then 
responded:'I think we can relate this back to education, and how we are 
continuing to try to strive … to … figure out how to create jobs right 
now. That is the biggest problem right now.

'I think, especially the men are … um … seen as the leaders of this, and
so we need to see how to … create education better. So that we can 
solve this problem. Thank you.'

Younger days: Erin Brady is a graduate of Central Connecticut State University with a degree in Finance and a minor in Criminal Justice

Job: Erin is a Financial Accountant for Prudential Retirement in Hartford, CT, where she works behind the scenes by running the controls that ensure every member of her team has performed their work correctly and efficiently

Child's play: Erin plans to pursue an MBA in the near future and hopes to get involved with Pension Risk Transfers

Brady gets the crown 
and a New York apartment for one year. She is expected to spend her 
title reign on a nationwide speaking tour and raising breast and ovarian
cancer awareness, the organization's official cause.

She
beat Miss Louisiana, Miss Texas and Miss Illinois and contestants from 
South Carolina, Ohio, Illinois, Utah, Alabama, North Carolina and Nevada, who got down to the final round.

As
the stage emptied, Brady spoke about her commitment to fighting drug 
and alcohol abuse, which have marked her family, and her excitement at 
the prospect of telling her bosses at Prudential Financial she wasn't 
coming in tomorrow. Or ever again.

'They're going to be very upset to learn that I'm not coming,' she said.

Asked
what she was looking forward to, now that the competition is over, she 
described a routine that sounded not very different from her training 
regime: getting in her beauty sleep and hitting the gym.

Gabbled: Miss Utah, Marissa Powell did not fare so well when asked she was posed a question by a panellist - her amusing response has now gone viral 

Sash: Miss Connecticut USA 2013, Erin Brady, is announced as Miss USA 2013, and congratulated Miss Universe 2012

Runner up: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady reacts with first runner up Miss Alabama Mary Margaret McCord

Happy as Larry: Donald Trump, co-owner of the Miss Universe Organization, poses with Miss Connecticut Erin Brady at a news conference after she was crowned Miss USA 2013

Beautiful: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady walks the runway during the evening gown competition of the Miss USA 2013 pageant, Sunday, June 16

Fit: Brady's toned physique helped her secure the coveted title

Her father Francis said he always 
knew his math-oriented daughter was a glamour girl. She and her sisters 
used to strut around and pretend they were beauty queens.

'My grandmother used to have a video 
camera and she's tell us to walk around the pool like Miss America,' 
Brady's sister Lauren said.

In
a twist, organizers announced they would allow fans to save one of the 
eliminated women by announcing their support on Twitter.

During
the swimsuit competition, the ladies threw off sheer wraps to reveal 
skimpy blue, gold and orange bikinis. They strutted in stilettos to the 
Jonas Brothers' live performance of 'Pom Poms.'

The women also strutted to Calvin 
Harris' electronica-infused 'Sweet Nothing' in an array of spangled, 
flowing evening gowns. Trains, gauze and long wavy hair were the 
preferred looks.

Unlike the rival Miss America pageant, Miss USA doesn't ask its queens to perform a talent or choose a charity mission.

The judge's panel included over-the-top fashion designer Betsey Johnson, 'Biggest Loser' star Bob Harper and Rocca.

Green goddess: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady, from Glastonbury, Connectcut, walks the runway during the introductions of the Miss USA 2013 pageant

Connecticut: Brady, 25, comes from South Glastonbury and works for Prudential

Bikini: Miss Connecticut Erin Brady walks the runway during the swimsuit competition of the Miss USA 2013 pageant

Toned: Miss Connecticut wore an orange swimsuit for her trip down the runway

Rocca praised the pageant as a prime example of Americana backstage.

The
pageant aired live on NBC, hosted by Nick Jonas of the Jonas Brothers 
pop act and Giuliana Rancic, co-anchor of 'E! News.' The Jonas Brothers 
and DJ Pauly D were expected to perform.

The winner will represent the United States at the Miss Universe pageant in the winter.

Last year's Miss USA, Olivia Culpo, 
won that international crown, becoming the first Miss USA to ascend to 
Miss Universe in 16 years. Meriwether, who had been first runner-up, 
took over for her for the remainder of the year.

The Miss USA hopefuls stayed at the 
Planet Hollywood casino for the past week, but the flashing slot 
machines and ubiquitous oversized novelty drinks have been little more 
than a background to a stuffed schedule of product tie-in media events, 
including hairdo contests and paddleboat competitions.

The
animal rights organization People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals 
is using the pageant to stage a protest of fur and the tradition of 
awarding furs to winners of some state pageants.

PETA
has made a provocative ad featuring four nude former Miss USA winners. 
The tagline is: 'Feel Beautiful in Your Own Skin, and Let Animals Keep 
Theirs.'

Judge: Writer, comedian and pageant judge Mo Rocca, left, said he was looking for a woman who resembled Abraham Lincoln, right, without a beard

Missed out: Miss South Carolina Megan Pickneyl, right, and Miss Nevada Chelsea Caswell, left, were among those who missed out on the crown

Beauties: Miss West Virginia Chelsea Welch, left, and Miss Alabama Mary Margaret McCord, right, looked glamorous

Southern belle: Miss Louisiana USA 2013, Kristen Girault, competes in her ViX Paula Hermanny swimsuit during the 2013 Miss USA Competition at PH Live in Las Vegas

Ohio: Miss Ohio Kristin Smith from Dayton walks the runway at the Las Vegas pageant

All smiles: The Miss USA pageant is likely to be Donald Trump's favorite day of the year

Red carpet: Katherine Webb was among the celebrities who attended the pageant

@highlight

'Wait Wait ... Don't Tell Me' 
personality Mo Rocca offered up his bizarre criteria as the contestants 
strutted their stuff in elegant gowns and swimsuits

@highlight

Shortly after, Erin Brady, of South Glastonbury, Connecticut was announced the winner of the coveted Las Vegas beauty pageant

@highlight

Miss Utah's confusing question response has now gone viralShe rose to fame after winning reality TV show 'Signed by Katie Price' but Amy Willerton turned down a contract with the star's management to strike out on her own.

Now she's battling it out to be crowned Miss Universe competing in Russia against models from around the world.

The 21-year-old from Bristol has already impressed on the catwalk in an evening gown and bikini, while she wore a skimpy take on royal robes as she dressed up as a Queen for the 'national costume' round.

Vying for the title: Amy Willerton representing Great Britain at the rehearsals of Miss Universe 2013 in Moscow

The winner, announced in a worldwide TV broadcast on Saturday, will gain a luxury lifestyle for a year funded by Donald Trump. Amy won her place in the competition after winning the title of Miss London in 2012 and then Miss Universe Great Britain in 2013.

Her beauty pageant success came after she controversially turned down a contract with Katie's company, BlackSheep Management.

Two years ago, she beat 10,000 other young models to be crowned the winner of Sky Living's show Signed by Katie Price.

On the worldwide stage: The model, who won the reality TV Signed by Katie Price, takes a break during Miss Universe rehearsals. The winner will be announced in a live broadcast on Saturday

On entering the competition, she was promised a ­modelling contract with mentoring from Katie, her picture on the front cover of OK! magazine, a Range Rover and a holiday in the Maldives.

But she told The Sunday Mirror she never received any of these things and felt 'let down' after giving up a place studying media at Cardiff University to take part in the show.

She said at the time: 'I never expected overnight fame. But I don't believe the promises from Katie or her team were kept.

'I gave up my job, was encouraged to turn down a place at university and had to put my life on hold.'

In the running: Amy has already taken to the catwalk in the ball gown and bikini rounds

Queen of the catwalk: In the national costume round she donned a skimpy regal outfit

She said she had always admired Katie 
and identified with her as she has a brother who is disabled like the 
glamour model's son Harvey.

But far from being mentored by her, Amy said Katie had no time for her and she felt she didn't even like her. Amy said the management company failed to find any work for her so she had to survive on her savings and support from her parents.

She added: 'I'm so angry. When I won, I thought life 
would change. It has... but for the worse. My life's been turned upside 
down. I've had enough of Katie and don't want anything more to do with 
her or her team.'

Katie was said to react with fury when Amy refused to sign a contract after winning the show calling her 'arrogant, stuck-up and fake.'

Meanwhile BlackSheep
 Management issued a statement saying they were 'disappointed' in Amy 
saying she 'had changed from the girl we met during filming.'

They
 said it was unreasonable for her to expect overnight success as it 
would take 'time and money' to raise her profile. They said they had not
 failed to deliver the Range Rover (but that Amy couldn't drive it 
because she couldn't afford the £10,000 insurance) and had offered her a
 holiday in the Marbella instead of the Maldives.

Fall out: Amy said she felt let down after Katie Price failed to mentor her as promised when she won her search for a star

Amy's website states that she walked away from Katie and her team because 'she wanted to take her career in a different direction.'

She added in another interview with The Mirror that she hasn't had contact with Katie since.

She said: 'I broke off all contact when I decided to leave. A lot of very upsetting things happened - some of which Kate doesn't even know about - but I think we are both best moving on and going our separate ways.

'There was only room for one leading lady in that circus. I want to be the leading lady of my own game.'

And Katie isn't the only person Amy has broken ties with ahead of her Miss Universe appearance.

The Daily Mail's Richard Kay reported last month how she had been dumped by her multi-millionaire diamond dealer boyfriend, Mohamed Shawesh.

The model said she was upset by the break-up but focussing on the Miss Universe competition was helping her move on.

She said: 'We were madly in love - but then he dumped me on holiday. I was quite shocked at first, but I think that it was a classic case of me not being able to give him enough attention.

'I need to focus on my career because I'm very ambitious and it's much more difficult with a man around.'

While she isn't being mentored by Katie, it seems Amy's career may yet follow a similar path to the glamour model's. She's tipped 
to be taking part in the new series of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of 
Here, the show that propelled Katie's career. 

@highlight

Amy beat thousands to win  TV show 'Signed by Katie Price'

@highlight

But she didn't sign contract with Katie's management

@highlight

She said they had 'let her down'

@highlight

Model wanted to take career 'in different direction'

@highlight

Now she's competing in Miss Universe competition in Russia

@highlight

Winner gets luxury lifestyle funded by Donald Trump

@highlight

She's also tipped to appear in this year's I'm A CelebrityBy
David Martosko, U.s. Political Editor

PUBLISHED:
  
  
      15:24 EST, 3 January 2014
    
  

 | 
  UPDATED:
  
  
      15:34 EST, 3 January 2014

Clay Aiken, the openly gay runner-up in the 2003 American Idol contest, is quietly exploring a run for Congress in his native North Carolina. And Republicans have already gone on the offensive.

The Washington Blade, a gay community magazine in the nation's capital, reported Friday that the crooner has talked with pollsters and election consultants to learn whether he would stand a chance to unseat Rep. Renee Ellmers, the Republican who has represented the Raleigh, North Carolina district since 2011.

Daniel Keylin, a spokesman for the North Carolina Republican Party, was unimpressed by Friday's news.

'In a testament to the weakness of the Democrat Party, Clay Aiken would actually be one of their strongest Congressional candidates if he runs,' Keylin told MailOnline.

Political high notes? Clay Aiken is actively working toward a run for Congress, sources told the LGBT-oriented Washington Blade newspaper

Surgical nurse Renee Ellmers has represented North Carolina's Second Congressional District since 2011, and Clay Aiken reportedly wants her job

One of the Democratic operatives Aiken has met with is Betsy Conti, a veteran of Tarheel State politics who served under Governor Bev Purdue and worked on former Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore's campaign in 2000.

Aiken lost the 2003 American Idol crown to 'velvet teddy bear' Ruben Studdard, the rotund gospel singer who made news in 2013 when he lost a reported 112 pounds on the show 'The Biggest Loser.'

His career has spanned recording, publishing, theater and television, appearing as Sir Robin in the Broadway production of 'Spamalot!' and co-authoring a New York Times best-seller in 2004 and taking second place – behind former late-night host Arsenio Hall – in the 2012 edition of Donald Trump's show 'Celebrity Apprentice.'

A run for Congress wouldn't represent the gay father's first toe-dip into politics. In July he made an appearance on Capitol Hill, urging lawmakers to get tougher on anti-gay bullying.

'I was picked on, I was called gay, I was called fag, I was called sissy, you name it,;' he said during a congressional briefing.

'Fortunately, I was able to overcome it and live through it because of a number of friends who were supportive of me.'

Aiken lost the 2003 American Idol crown to crooner Ruben Studdard (L), but both have had successful recording careers

Aiken came out as gay shortly after his son was born, telling reporters that he didn't want to raise a child to hide the truth from anyone

In 2012 he told the Charlotte Observer that he harbored a secret desire to become North Carolina's governor.

'When I was in eighth grade, we had to do
 a project where we interviewed somebody we admired and wrote a paper 
about them,' he said. 'Everybody did a
 parent or their youth pastor or someone close to them. I called [then-U.S. Senator] Terry Sanford’s office in Raleigh and went 
and interviewed [him].'

Aiken has not yet announced his candidacy. The deadline for running in the May 6 primary election is February 28.

If he were to enter the race, he would face former North Carolina Commerce Secretary Keith Crisco, who has far more government experience but less name recognition.

@highlight

The openly gay Aiken came in second in the 2003 American Idol and the 2012 Celebrity Apprentice shows

@highlight

He's talking with political advisors in North Carolina and Washington, D.C. about a run for the seat held by Republican Renee Ellmers

@highlight

The singer once told a newspaper that he aspired to be North Carolina's governor

@highlight

He has until the end of February to declare his candidacy or drop out of contentionBy
Alex Greig
and Simon Tomlinson

PUBLISHED:
  
  
      08:52 EST, 16 January 2014
    
  
 | 
  UPDATED:
  
  
      14:59 EST, 16 January 2014

It is a culinary scandal which has gone right to the top of the political food chain and left Bill de Blasio with a rather sour taste in his mouth.

But the New York City Mayor may find his first crisis in office a little easier to swallow knowing that it will eventually help those most in need.

In an incident dubbed Forkgate, de Blasio provoked mock outrage after being caught eating his pizza with a knife and fork instead of with his hands as is the New York way.

Now the owner of the Goodfella's Pizzeria where he was pictured has kept hold of said fork and plans to auction it for charity.

Scroll Down for Video

Put a fork in him: de Blasio earned the disapproval of New Yorkers when he ate a slice with a knife and fork at Goodfellas, Staten Island

Marc Cosentino, a retired NYPD 
sergeant, placed the fork in an evidence bag he acquired from a former 
colleague and is proudly displaying it behind the bar.

He told dnainfo.com: 'I just did it because I thought it was funny.

'Then all of a sudden it got all this interest, so I thought let's do something, let's do something for charity.'

It's not clear when the utensil will go up for auction or which charity will benefit.

Fewer
 than 10 days into his term as mayor, de Blasio found himself on the 
defensive after a picture of him using utensils spread across Twitter, 
prompting mock outrage among on blogs and news sites.

Responding
 to the pizza palaver, de Blasio said that his Italian ancestry is 
behind his decidedly un-New York pizza-eating style.

'In my ancestral homeland it is more typical to eat with a fork and knife. And I have been in Italy a lot and Iâ€™ve picked up the habit for certain types of pizza,' he said.

Hand it to him: de Blasio did eventually pick up his slice

It's a method New Yorkers have variously described as 'blasphemous,' a 'cardinal sin,' and 'unacceptable' on Twitter.

As any New Yorker knows, the preferred method for eating a slice of pizza is to fold it in half and eat it with your hands.

The
 incident, already dubbed 'Forkgate,' happened at Staten Island pizza 
joint Goodfellas last Friday, where de Blasio stopped in for lunch with 
local business owners.

Proving he is not a complete heathen, though, de Blasio explained that he likes to use his hands too.

His method is a combination of the Italian and New York styles, he said, describing it as 'very complicated.'

'I often start with a knife and fork. But then I cross over to the American approach and pick it up when I go farther into the pizza,' he told a reporter who questioned his methods, adding that the inquiry was a 'very important question.'

Charles Greinsky witnessed the incident and is not letting his longstanding friendship with the mayor get in the way of what's right.

One of us: Conservative pals Donald Trump and Sarah Palin made news in 2011 when they stepped out of Trump's presumably gold-plated apartment in Trump tower for a slice of pizza and proceeded to use a knife and fork

The American way: Both Mitt Romney and Barack Obama would win approval from New Yorkers with their pizza approach

He told The New York Times he loved having de Blasio in his home borough but could not approve of his genteel pizza-eating.

'No,' he told The New York Times. 'No. It's blasphemy.'

Relenting a little, he added, 'He's from Boston. He doesn't know any better.'

For the record, de Blasio ate three slices of smoked mozzarella and sausage pie.

@highlight

New York City Mayor photographed eating his pizza with a knife and fork

@highlight

Twitter users expressed faux horror at method after the picture went viral

@highlight

De Blasio defended use of utensils, saying it was down to Italian ancestryA mother whose 12-year-old girl is stranded on the crippled Carnival cruise ship has seen the girl for the first time in a week as she waved from the top deck of the stricken vessel.

The emotional reunion came as Rebekah Poret waved frantically at CNN helicopters hovering over the ship as her mother Mary watched a television screen and spoke with the girl over the phone.

'I love you,' Rebekah told her mother. 'I
 can't wait to see you. I can't wait to be back home.'

'I love you too. I
 promise I'm going to have a nice snuggly blanket for you when I see 
you,' Mary said, telling her daughter they could go to McDonalds. 
'Anything you want to eat tonight is yours.'

Mrs Poret is 
waiting in Mobile, Alabama, where the Carnival Triumph 
is expected to dock by 11 p.m. after five days 
stranded at sea. Her daughter said she cannot wait to be back on dry land.

Missed: Rebekah Poret is pictured with her mother, Mary, who is waiting for her in Mobile, Alabama

'It feels a lot better because
 I know that we're one step closer to being back home,' Rebekah said, 
adding: 'But we're still so far away. I can't wait to get back.'

Rebekah spoke to CNN to reveal her daily hell dealing with 
'horrible smells', cold temperatures and not knowing when she's going to
 get her next meal.

She is on the ship with her father, Larry, her 10-year-old friend Allie Taylor and Allie's father Carmel.

'When
 I wake up in the morning, I ask my dad, "Can I go back to sleep again?"
 because I want another day to pass so bad,' Rebekah told CNN as she 
tried to stay warm.

She said one of the biggest struggles is getting food - and not knowing if there will be any warm food by the time they reach the front of the line. Allie said they have been eating cold sandwiches.

First sighting: Rebekah Poret, 12, waves from the top of the Carnival cruise ship as her mother watches coverage by CNN - allowing her to see her daughter for the first time in a week

Struggle: Rebekah, in yellow, told CNN that she was suffering through cold temperatures and little food

Rebekah added that a smell from the 
bathrooms is also insufferable, and lingers on every deck of the ship, 
which is carrying more than 5,000 people, including passengers and 
staff.

Distressed 
passengers have previously spoken of sewage sloshing around in hallways 
and dripping down the walls, flooded rooms and an unbearable stench.

'The bathroom situation is horrible,' Rebekah said. 'Some toilets are working and some of them are not working. On some parts of the ship it smells 
horrible but right here on deck five it doesn't smell too bad but you 
still know it's there.'

Her father Larry Poret added: 'We were asked to use plastic bags to go to the bathroom and then used the shower. Sewage is going from one floor to the next... Passengers are wading in it.'

Allie also said the conditions are unbearable, and admitted she 'had to do my business in a can'.

The cold is also getting her down - especially as she admitted to CNN that she forgot to bring a jacket on board as she assumed the climate would be tropical. She said there is no heat inside the vessel.

Staying strong: The young girl said is has been hard not knowing when they will get their next meal

Heading home: She will be reunited with her mother, right, when the vessel docks in Alabama tonight

Thankfully her friend Ally gave her a
 spare and many people are wearing bathrobes to ward of temperatures 
reaching 46 degrees Fahrenheit outside the ship.

'They're trying to make the best of it 
but you can see how much they really dislike the situation,' she said. 'And how 
could you like the situation? You really can't.'

Even though the ship is slowly being tugged to the shoreline, she said she feels as if they are making no progress.

'I know we're moving a little bit but I really don't feel anything,' she said.

Mary Poret, who is waiting for her daughter and ex-husband in Mobile along with Allie's mother, previously told CNN that she had had sporadic contact with Rebekah.

Stranded: Ten-year-old Allie Taylor is also stuck on the Carnival Triumph with her father and the Porets

Apart: Her mother, Kimberly McKerreghan, left, is also waiting in Mobile for her daughter's return

The Carnival Triumph is expected to dock tonight in Mobile, Alabama between 8pm and 11pm (ET).

Custom and borders patrol agents are currently sailing out to meet the ship to speed up the process when the boat finally docks.

Carnival said that 200 staff members, including a 'care team', will be highly visible at the port to help their exhausted and grubby passengers.

Medical teams will also be on hand for anyone who needs health care.

They will first set foot in a terminal which has been disused for more than a year.

Despite landing in Mobile, a city which has hundreds of hotel rooms and two airports, passengers will then either board buses directly to Galveston or Houston in Texas.

The other option is to spend the night in a New Orleans hotel room. Those who opt to stay in New Orleans will catch flights to Houston on Friday.

Guests have already indicated which option they prefer to Carnival.

Carnival VP Terry Thornton said today that it as not 'logistically feasible' for passengers to remain in Mobile because of the volume of flights required.

Carnival said it will cover all transportation costs.

'She was hysterical, crying hysterically,' Mrs Poret said. 'She was scared. She don't know what was going to happen next.

'And what broke my heart the very most was her saying, "Mommy, I don't 
know if I'll ever see you again," and that's really hard to hear from 
your 12-year-old daughter.'

The Carnival Triumph is expected to finally reach dry land on Thursday between 8pm-11pm (ET).

The ship is now in view from shore - 
but those on board are being forced to wait up to ten hours before they 
land in Mobile as the powerless ship battles high winds and strong 
currents.

The boat is crawling along at the rate of six to seven knots, about the pace of a lawnmower.

It
 is a further frustration for the 3,143 passengers and 1,086 crew 
members who have endured four days stranded at sea in the Gulf of Mexico
 after a fire in the engine room crippled the power system.

On
 the top deck, a 'shanty town' has sprung up with passengers sleeping on
 sun loungers, wrapped in bedsheets to stay warm as temperatures dropped
 to 46F.

Despite the fact 
it rained all night, passengers opted to sleep outdoors because the 
stench of sewage has become so unbearable on board.

Medical teams are stationed at the docks to help any passengers who might need emergency healthcare.

Doctor Jorge Rodriguez said the Trumph was a 'floating petri dish' because of the combination of circumstances on board.

He
 told CNN: 'So far there hasn't been an outbreak of anything, but ... 
it's in the Gulf. It's warm. You don't have sanitary conditions, so 
hopefully they'll get back to shore ... before anything breaks out.'

Long journey: The ship has been stranded  for an extra four days after an engine fire broke out on Sunday

Plea: The Edmond family stuck on Carnival hold a sign after days of poor food and no showers

Carnival said in a statement late on Wednesday that passengers would be helped through customs by 200 staff members at the scene.

They were also being given the option of boarding buses directly to Galveston, Texas, or Houston, or spending the night in a hotel in New Orleans, where the company said it booked 1,500 rooms.

Those staying in New Orleans will be flown on Friday to Houston. Carnival said it will cover all the transportation costs.

@highlight

Rebekah Poret waved at CNN helicopter as mother watched on TV

@highlight

Mary Poret is waiting in Mobile, Alabama where the ship will dock tonight

@highlight

Carnival Triumph has been stranded at sea since an engine fire knocked out the power; passengers have described unbearable conditions on boardBy 
Helen Collis

PUBLISHED:

11:10 EST, 12 September 2013


| 

UPDATED:

10:45 EST, 13 September 2013

Property tycoon Donald Trump could be setting his sights on acquiring the FBI's colossal headquarters in Washington adding an enormous concrete block to his growing empire.

Trump, who already owns several million square feet of prime Manhattan real estate, as well as buildings across the US, has hinted that he's interested in the vast building on Pennsylvania Avenue.

The billionnaire has just completed drawing up a long-term lease for the city's Old Post Office Pavilion, a block west of the FBI HQ, to transform it into a $200 million luxury hotel.

FBI interest: Donald Trump has said he is closely watching what is happening regarding the FBI HQ moving buildings, and may, or may not, consider getting involved

Donald Trump and Ivanka Trump, pictured last year, could use their $200million Post Office Pavilion hotel project in Washington, to boost their profile for future big developments in the city

And not long after the ink has dried, and Trump has turned his attention to his next major project.

The J Edgar Hoover Building, considered by some a blot on the otherwise grand boulevard landscape it sits on, was built in the mid-1970s - a Brutalist architectural epoch that often instills strong reactions from people today.

The General Services Administration (GSA), which manages real estate for the federal government, wants to cut a deal with a developer for the building, says the Washington Post.

It is looking for a developer to swap a new building with its iconic 1970s block so the FBI can move into larger, more contemporary premises, the news service said.

The iconic 1970s block is considered an eyesore by some, but Trump and his daughter Ivanka may take on the building as a project

The building has an open mezzanine and courtyard, but access to the courtyard is limited, and most of the first floor is closed for security reasons

Undeterred by the building's monstrous size and design, Trump seems keen, telling the Washington Post: 'We’ll be watching the FBI as to what’s going to happen.... Whether or not we will bid on it, we may, we may not.

'Now if we do as good a job as we will do with [the Old Post Office], people may ask us about it.'

The timing, at least, could fit nicely with Trump's schedule, the Washingoton Post notes, with his developers finishing the Old Post Office in 2015 and wondering over the street to the FBI rubix cube to start the next job.

The Trump empire has even crossed the Atlantic to Scotland where work began last year to construct a new golf club on the Menie estate in Aberdeen

An artist's impression of the clubhouse at the new golf course being built by Donald Trump, at the Scottish golf club

His pregnant daughter Ivanka Trump is managing the Post Office, and the pair hope the grand $200 million hotel project will boost their profile for future bids, according to the news service.

It would add to a growing empire of buildings for th real estate family, that includes the Trump Nationla Dolf Club, in Loudoun, purchased  2009, the Kluge Winery and estate in Charlottesville, The Trump Tower, in Tampa, The Trump International Hotel and Tower, in Toronto, and many more.

Read more here: Donald and daughter Ivanka Trump will consider acquiring FBI headquarters

@highlight

Donald Trump has said he's keeping a close eye on the FBI building

@highlight

Management wants to swap it for a new development for growing agency

@highlight

Trump will develop nearby Post Office Pavilion into $200million hotel

@highlight

Luxury hotel development could be used to boost the profile of a bidAtlantic City's crumbling casino market disintegrated even further Saturday as the owners of the Trump Plaza casino said they expect to shut down in mid-September.

Trump Entertainment Resorts told The Associated Press that no final decision has been made on the Boardwalk casino. But the company said it expects the casino to close its doors Sept. 16.

Notices warning employees of the expected closing will go out to the casino's 1,000-plus employees Monday.

Big loser: The Trump Plaza casino is the poorest performing casino in all of Atlantic City

If Trump Plaza closes, Atlantic City could lose a third of its casinos and a quarter of its casino workforce in less than nine months. The Atlantic Club closed in January, the Showboat is closing next month and Revel might do likewise if a buyer can't be found in bankruptcy court.

The head of Atlantic City's main casino workers' union demanded state lawmakers help head off what he called a "pending catastrophe" that will affect the state's tourism industry and tax collections.

Trump Entertainment Resorts said that its managers and board of directors 'have been reviewing alternatives for the property. Although this review has not been completed and no final decision has been made, the company expects that it will terminate the operations of Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino on or shortly after September 16, 2014.'

Double down: Trump Plaza made just $73 million from gamblers last year, the smallest amount of any of the 12 casinos in Atlantic City

A source with direct knowledge of the situation who was not authorized to speak to the media told the AP that the company has hired a search firm to solicit buyers for Trump Plaza, an effort that remains ongoing. So far, no buyer has emerged.

The company did not indicate what might become of the building after it is closed.

Bob McDevitt, president of local 54 of the Unite-HERE union, said 7,000 casino workers - or about one in four - have been warned their jobs could disappear within 60 days.

'While this is a personal tragedy for every family involved, it is also a crisis for the state,' he said. 'We expect Trenton to react with more than just sympathetic sound bites; we demand action equal to the magnitude of this pending catastrophe.'

Trump Plaza, which cost $210 million to build, opened in May 1984 as one of Donald Trump's pet projects. The real estate mogul has since limited his dealings in Atlantic City to a 10 percent stake in Trump Entertainment Resorts.

Denial: Trump says he has nothing to do with the failing casino and that he simply 'let them use my name'

'I let them use my name, but I have nothing to do with it,' Trump said on Saturday. 'Atlantic City has suffered for years. Many mistakes were made by government, tremendous mistakes, including no reinvestment in town; they would take casino revenue and put it in places that had nothing to do with Atlantic City. I got out seven years ago; my timing was tremendous.'

New Jersey in recent years has required casino development taxes to be used only in Atlantic City.

The news is the latest in a cascade of setbacks for Atlantic City's gambling market, which until just a few years ago was the second-largest in the nation after Nevada; Pennsylvania has now taken over that spot. Analysts have long said that the casino market here, and in the Northeastern United States, has been oversaturated, and that some casinos need to close to ensure the survival of others.

On Jan. 1, Atlantic City had 12 casinos. By the end of September, it could have eight.

Ghost town: By the end of September, the number of casinos in Atlantic City could go from 12 to eight as many consider closing

The Atlantic Club closure cost 1,600 workers their jobs. An additional 2,100 at Showboat will be unemployed as of Aug. 31, in addition to the 1,009 Trump Plaza workers on the payroll. Revel has 3,100 workers who could lose their jobs if the 2-year-old casino resort is not sold.

Trump Entertainment Resorts has tried for years to sell Trump Plaza, the poorest performing casino in Atlantic City. A deal to sell it last year for $20 million to a California firm fell through.

It won less than $73 million from gamblers in all of last year, ranking last out of the 12 casinos that operated then. So far this year it has taken in nearly $21 million, down almost 27 percent from the same period last year.

@highlight

Of the 12 casinos in Atlantic City, Trump Plaza brings in the least amout of gambling revenue

@highlight

Donald Trump claims he has nothing to do with the failing casino, saying that 'I let them use my name, but I have nothing to do with it'

@highlight

The casino is expected to close its doors on September 16Ivanka Trump has spoken about her conversion to Judaism for the first time in the new issue of Vogue. 

The mother-of-two, 33, whose father, Donald, is Presbyterian, converted in 2009 ahead of her marriage to New York Observer owner Jared Kushner, whose family are Orthodox Jews.

'It's been such a great life decision for me,' she tells the magazine. 'I am very modern, but I'm also a very traditional person, and I think that's an interesting juxtaposition in how I was raised as well.

Scroll down for video  

Mom first: Ivanka was shot for Vogue in her Manhattan apartment. Her son Joseph, 17 months, makes a cameo in one of the photos

'I really find that with Judaism, it creates an amazing blueprint for family connectivity . . . 

'We observe the Sabbath,' she continues. 'From Friday to Saturday we don't do anything but hang out with one another. We don't make phone calls.' 

But, Ivanka adds, she has been reluctant to discuss the subject in the past. 

'I always shied away from it being a public conversation because it's such a personal thing,' she says. 'We're pretty observant, more than some, less than others. I just feel like it's such an intimate thing for us.' 

The former model-turned-businesswoman  says her marriage is a far cry from her parents' who divorced in 1992 after 15 years and three children together. 

Stealing the show! A behind-the-scenes snap shows Ivanka's three-year-old daughter Arabella putting on a performance for the camera

Dolce & Gabbana Polka Dot Printed Silk Gauze Dress

Available at Luisaviaroma.com

Visit site

When Ivanka Trump appeared in the pages of Vogue magazine we knew she wouldn't be wearing any old rags. The young businesswoman opened up her home to the readers of the fashion bible in a $9,000 Dolce & Gabbana dress. And we would expect nothing less from the heiress to the Trump throne.

The bold mix of polka dot and floral prints makes a huge style statement. Spots and botanicals are classic motifs on their own, but when combined they make a daring duo that Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana execute flawlessly. The risk-taking Italian designers didn't play it safe when creating their Spring collection with unconventional pairings like flowers with stripes and lace with fringe.

The silk frock is available at Luisa Via Roma by clicking to the right. But for most of us, this style is out of our price range. Not to worry, we've got spotted options from Sophie Hulme and Julie Brown that won't break the bank. However, our preference goes to Rebecca Minkoff's Devy dress. It looks like it was pulled from D&G's runway at a fraction of the cost of the original.

Rebecca Minkoff Devy Dot-Print Silk Maxi Dress at Saks Fifth Avenue

Visit site

JB by Julie Brown Black Printed Stretch Woven Wrap-Style Maxi Dress at Bluefly

Visit site

Sophie Hulme Burgundy Polka Silk Long Dress at Avenue 32

Visit site

Tuana Long Dress at Yoox

Visit site

Family time: Ivanka pictured in an Instagram snap with husband Jared Kushner in January taking Arabella ice-skating at the Trump Rink in Central Park for the first time

'I saw the glamour and the excitement that surrounded my parents,' she recalls. 'Rooms would hush when they'd walk in. But I think for Jared and me, it's more about real relationships. I always prefer smaller groups.'

The interview with Ivanka Trump appears in the March issue of Vogue, on newsstands now

The couple go out together almost every night, Ivanka reveals, as soon as she has bathed Arabella, three, and Joseph, 17 months, and put them to bed.

Indeed, being a hands-on mother is important to her, though she does have the support of a Chinese nanny, XiXi, who is teaching the children to speak Mandarin.

'I would say she is definitely the CEO of our household, whereas I'm more on the board of directors,' says Jared. 'We both pick up slack for each other where it's needed, but she doesn't want to outsource mothering, so she's very involved.'

Ivanka jokes that her husband's idea of a date night is a visit to one of his development sites. It's just as well she shares his passion for real estate development.

In all seriousness though, the pair seem to have remained besotted with one another, even six years on.

'You realize in life not that many things matter that much, but your choice of spouse is really everything,' Ivanka says. 'I am running a thousand miles a minute, and so is he, but none of it really matters. And I wouldn't be able to do any of it if I didn't have somebody who cared about me and had my best interests in mind. 

'If I was married to somebody who, even if beneath the surface, didn't like the fact that I work so hard or didn't support my ambitions for myself or felt self-conscious about my last name . . . I think it would be very hard to build a solid foundation on that.'

@highlight

Ivanka converted in 2009 ahead of her marriage to New York Observer owner Jared Kushner, whose family are Orthodox Jews

@highlight

The mother-of-two, 33, calls the conversion 'such a great life decision'The gleam in Leeza Gibbons' eyes these days isn't only because she's managed to make the cut on Celebrity Apprentice along with seven of the original 16 contestants. Leeza, who launched one line of jewelry last year, is about to introduce her second line of jewelry.

Since she was a young girl growing up in Irmo, South Carolina, the 57-year-old former Entertainment Tonight host has had a thing for bling, insisting everything looks better with a little sparkle and shine. 

Her father Carlos, a school superintendent turned antique shop owner, shared his love of fabulous finds with his daughter.

'I've always loved jewelry,' Gibbons tells Daily Mail Online in an exclusive interview. 'And I could get lost in the rows of pearls and broaches Daddy displayed at his shop.'

'My sister and I used to joke that we had to hide any pieces of our own that w  truly loved, because Dad was likely to slap a price tag on it, put it in a display case and offer it up to customers.'

Scroll down for video 

Sparkle: Leeza Gibbons has managed to make the cut on Celebrity Apprentice along with seven of the original 16 contestants. And now she's ready to launch a new jewelry line. 

Arms of love: Leeza's inspiration was actually a picture she had of her mom after she was diagnosed. Says Leeza. 'In the photo I had my arms wrapped around mom and I was telling her I would always protect her'

Shop 'til they drop: Leeza and her father Carlos still search flea markets for funky costume jewelry as well as more pricey estate baubles

Leeza says she could get lost in the rows of pearls and broaches her father displayed at his shop

Leeza and her dad still search flea markets for funky costume jewelry as well as more pricey estate type baubles.

She admits that she became an even more avid collector once she launched her TV career. And she says that since the 1970s, she's amassed a huge collection of costume jewelry.

'I am not kidding, I have entire closets devoted to my jewelry collection,' the glamorous mother of three reveals.

Now, however, the Emmy Award-winning Gibbons, who co-hosted Entertainment Tonight from 1984 to 2000, is turning her passion into a business venture and has launched not one, but two, jewelry lines.

The first, Arms of Love, was inspired by love for her late mother Gloria Jean who died in 2008  of Alzheimer's disease

'My inspiration was actually a picture I had of my mother and I together after she was diagnosed,' says Leeza. 'In the photo I had my arms wrapped around mom and I was telling her I would always protect her.

'Of course I couldn't do anything to stop the progression of that life-changing illness, but I could let her know that she would be wrapped in my love always and forever no matter what.

'In fact, to this day whenever I write a card, note or email to one of my three children, I always sign it AFNMW - always and forever, no matter what. And if you turn over each piece in my Arms of Love Jewelry line, you will see those very initials engraved on the back.'

'Brandi and I bonded during production of Celebrity Apprentice because of our love for our kids,' says Leeza. She gave her these necklaces as a gift

The Celebrity Apprentice star considers Olivia Newton-John (left) her mentor

The Arms of Love collection features pieces in 10 Karat gold and sterling silver with most containing a small diamond. Prices start as $200 and go up to $320.

Gibbon's newest line – Wishes & Dreams – is due out in February and will be available at Kohl's stores and online. She says it's a real opportunity for her to share her message with the viewers and listeners who have grown up with her.

'I am a strong believer in making your dreams come true,' says Gibbons. 'A wish is a really powerful thing and when you fuel it with your intentions and believe in it with all your heart, your dreams can become reality. So for this line, we designed pieces that signify all types of wishes and dreams.'

 AFNMW  - always and forever, no matter what  - is engraved on the back of each piece in Leeza's Arms of Love Jewelry line

Leeza says she has had a lot of fun gifting her close friends with early pieces from her collections.

'One of the first pieces I gave away from Arms of Love, was to my dear friend Olivia Newton John,' says Gibbons. 'I consider her my mentor and when I was younger I wanted to have just a fraction of her goodness and likability. 

'In 2008 Olivia and I became close friends when we walked the Great Wall of China together to raise money for her cancer and wellness center. That's when I met her new husband for the first time. I was so encouraged by the way she found love for a second time, that I allowed myself to open my heart and trust again even though I had not been able to make marriage work before.

'That was the energy shift I needed because I found my current husband Steven and we couldn't be happier.'

Leeza recently surprised her friend Brandi Glanville with a piece from her line Wishes & Dreams.

'Brandi and I bonded during production of Celebrity Apprentice because of our love for our kids. We both wished the world for them and that all their dreams would come true, so I wanted her to have a necklace from my Wishes & Dreams collection.'

Let's get serious: Leeza and Brandi made a wicked team on one episode of Celebrity Apprentice

'Working with Donald Trump has been a real learning experience,' says Leeza.

Season seven of Celebrity Apprentice began production with 16 contestants and  is now down to a cast of eight.

So far Gibbons has outlasted such favorites as Lorenzo Lamas, Keisha Knight Pulliam, Gilbert Gottfried, Kate Gosselin and Kevin Jonas.

'It's been a blast working with all these great people and working with Donald Trump has been a real learning experience,' says Leeza. 'There has been a whole lot of craziness going on this season as well as a whole lot of toxicity! But come on folks, the toxicity is what makes it so good!'

While Leeza loves her own creations, these days some of her favorite pieces are gifts from her husband of nearly four years, NY Times best selling author, Steven Fenton, 45.

True love: Leeza says she opened her heart and learned to trust again with husband Steven Fenton even though she had not been able to make marriage work before

'Every year, Steven gives me a special locket of some kind on Valentine's Day that contains a photo of us together taken the previous New Years' Eve. Some of the lockets are simple gold, some have diamonds and some are vintage pieces, but they are all treasures.

'I love the idea that my jewelry is a celebration of moments between lovers, family and friends,' says Leeza. 'I try and design the sort of pieces men love to give, and women love to receive, and it's a great feeling to know that in some way I am helping others build the same kind of memories Steven and I have built.

'A piece of jewelry is an intimate exchange of an expression,' she adds. 'It represents something precious and private that we share and that makes the giving and receiving of jewelry so special.'

Leeza's Arms of Love collection is available at Reeds.com.

 

@highlight

Leeza Gibbons, 57, has made it halfway through Celebrity Apprentice, and now she has something else to celebrate

@highlight

She is set to introduce her newest line of jewelry - Wishes & Dreams - after launching Arms of Love

@highlight

The former Entertainment Tonight host says her thing for bling comes from her father Carlos, an antique shop owner from South Carolina

@highlight

Leeza admits she has entire closets devoted to personal jewelry collectionDonald Trump has backtracked over a series of scathing tweets he wrote about President Obama as he secured a second term last night - hastily deleting messages calling for a 'revolution'.

And when NBC's Brian Williams lambasted Trump's Twitter tantrum on his show, the outspoken business mogul turned his anger on the host and his 'boring' newscasts.

Trump took to the social networking site after the president's victory was projected by several news outlets on Tuesday night, and claimed the re-election was a 'great and disgusting injustice'.

After a barrage of outraged messages, Trump added: 'He lost the popular vote by a lot and won the election. We should have a revolution in this country!'

Scroll down for videos

Spat: NBC's Brian Williams, left, criticised billionaire Donald Trump, right, after he went on a Twitter rant demanding a revolution after Obama's re-election. Trump has now hit back at Williams

Minutes later, he deleted the tweet - 
perhaps aware of the potential legal ramifications of a remark seeking 
to incite a revolution against the president.

NBC's Brian Williams read some of 
Trump's tweets on the air, while claiming he did so 
reluctantly, as he declared that the TV personality - whose show, 
Celebrity Apprentice, airs on NBC - had 'driven well past the last exit 
to relevance.'

'This is, as they say, out there and 
getting an airing tonight, so you might as well know about it,' Williams
 groaned. 'Donald Trump, who has driven well past the last exit to 
relevance and veered into something closer to irresponsible here, is 
tweeting tonight. Here's a sampling...'

Williams read several of Trump's tweets, which called the election a 'total sham and a travesty.'

Litany: Trump later deleted parts of his rant, but has kept the majority of it, blasting the Electoral College and the direction of the nation

However, as it became apparent that former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney would not win the election, the Donald’s tweets became more enraged, and more hyperbolic.

Trump began with: 'Well, back to the drawing board!'

He
 quickly followed up with a call to revolution. The Trump wrote: 'He 
lost the popular vote by a lot and won the election. We should have a 
revolution in this country!' - before deleting the tweet.

But he was far from over. 'This 
election is a total sham and a travesty,' he wrote. 'We are not a 
democracy! He added America is in 'serious and unprecedented trouble like never before'.

Priorities: Trump endorsed Romney last February in Las Vegas and has outspokenly objected many of Obama's policies

Bowed: Romney delivered his concession speech early Wednesday morning in Boston after he lost to Obama

The 66-year-old later went onto 
attack the Electoral College, but offered a kernel of hope for the 
still-Republican House of Representatives.

‘Hopefully the House can hold our country together for four more years,’ Trump tweeted.

‘House
 shouldn’t give anything to Obama unless he terminates Obamacare.’ He 
did not tweet anything after Romney's gracious concession speech.

But he didn't keep his anger quiet for long, unleashing yet more scathing remarks on Wednesday morning - this time against Brian Williams, who uses the Twitter handle @bwilliams.

He wrote: '@bwilliams knows that I think his newscast has become totally boring so he took a shot at me last night.'

Second rant: on Wednesday, Trump turned on Brian Williams who had criticised his previous messages

'The only thing more boring than @bwilliams newscast is his show Rock Center which is totally dying in the ratings - a disaster!' he added, before asking him: 'Wouldn't you love to have my ratings?'

He went on: 'If I'm "well past the last exit to relevance" how come you spent so much time reading my tweets last night?'

Trump’s attacks on Obama have been more frequent in the weeks preceding the election.

Only
 last week, he lashed out at the commander-in-chief for using Superstorm
 Sandy to garner more votes and essentially buy the election.

The billionaire’s grudge hasn’t gone unnoticed by the president.

During
 a recent appearance on The Tonight Show With Jay Leno, Obama quipped 
that their rivalry began when the two were growing up in Kenya.

‘We had constant run-ins on the soccer field, he wasn’t that good,’ Obama told the NBC late-night host.

Offer he could refuse: Ahead of the election, Trump offered to pay $5million to the charity of President Obama's choice if he released his college and passport records

Victory: President Obama waves as he walks on stage with first lady Michelle Obama and daughters Malia and Sasha at his election night party

Cheers: Obama and the family were met with cheering at McCormick Place in Chicago

Obama said on Leno that the two have never actually met.

During a campaign stop in swing state New Hampshire last month, Obama again joked about his birth certificate.

He joked that Mitt Romney had made it too expensive for him to get a birth certificate.'He raised fees to get a birth certificate which would have been expensive for me,' the president said.

The
 joke was met with laughter and cheers, and was a veiled reference to 
so-called 'birthers' who doubt he was born in America and question the 
authenticity of his Hawaiian birth certificate.

@highlight

Trump ranted on Twitter when it became clear Obama would win election

@highlight

Later deleted tweet calling for a revolution

@highlight

NBC's Brian Williams lashed out against Trump on air, saying he had 'driven well past the last exit to relevance'

@highlight

Trump then attacked Williams and his 'boring' newscastsBy 
Daily Mail Reporter and Ap Reporter

PUBLISHED:

08:13 EST, 16 July 2013


| 

UPDATED:

08:13 EST, 16 July 2013

Lawyers for Rod Blagojevich filed an appeal just before a midnight 
deadline Monday that challenges the imprisoned former Illinois 
governor's corruption conviction and 14-year prison term, including on 
grounds the trial judge allegedly committed a litany of errors.

The 100-plus page filing with the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
in Chicago comes more than two years after the Chicago Democrat's 
retrial and 16 months after he entered a federal prison in Colorado.

Jurors convicted Blagojevich, 56, of engaging in wide-ranging 
corruption, including that the two-term governor sought to profit from 
his power to appoint someone to the U.S. Senate seat that Barack Obama 
vacated to become president.

Corrupt: Former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich attempted to sell an appointment to the Senate seat once held by President Barack Obama

Blagojevich's most shocking crime in the eyes of most observers was 
no crime at all, the appeal contends. Blagojevich was merely engaging in
standard politics when he floated the idea of securing a U.S. Cabinet 
seat or ambassadorship for himself if he appointed Obama confidant 
Valerie Jarrett to the Senate seat, it says. Neither Obama nor Jarrett 
have ever been accused of any wrongdoing in the case.

"The record shows that Blagojevich's proposed exchange was an arm's 
length political deal, described by Blagojevich as a political 'horse 
trade,'" the appeal says. It wasn't criminal "because the political deal
proposed by Blagojevich was a proper and common exchange under our 
democratic system of government."

The appeal also points to what it says was a lack of evenhandedness 
by U.S. District Judge James Zagel throughout Blagojeivch's two trials.

It alleges Zagel gave Blagojevich little choice but to testify at his
retrial after repeatedly ruling arguments the defense viewed as crucial
could only be broached by Blagojevich himself from the witness stand. 
Once on the stand, Zagel prohibited many of those statements, including 
Blagojevich's attempt to tell jurors he believed at the time that his 
actions were legal, it contends.

14 Years: Former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich, left, walks with attorneys as he arrives at the Federal Correctional Institution Englewood in Colorado in March 2012 to serve a 14-year sentence

"Had Blagojevich been permitted to present his good-faith defense, it
would have been a powerful defense, likely to produce an acquittal," 
his lawyers argue.

The appeal also blames Zagel for allowing a juror who allegedly 
expressed bias against Blagojevich to remain on the jury despite defense
attorneys' objections. The appeal only referred to the panelist as 
Juror No. 174, saying he said about Blagojevich during jury selection, 
"I just figured him, possibly, to be guilty."

The appeal also raises longstanding claims that Zagel barred FBI 
wiretap evidence that might have aided the defense, that he sided 
overwhelming with prosecutors and that he miscalculated the appropriate 
prison term for Blagojevich.

The appeal was filed about 30 minutes before midnight.

Blagojevich was convicted on 18 counts over two trials, jurors in the
first deadlocking on all but one count. Taking the stand in the second,
decisive trial in 2011, Blagojevich insisted his talking about wanting 
to sell Obama's seat was just that — talk.

Zagel imposed a lengthy prison term at a sentencing hearing later in 
2011, telling Blagojevich he had abused voters' trust and undermined the
democratic process "to do things that were only good for yourself."

Blago: Blagojevich speaks to the media outside his home in Chicago, as his wife Patti wipes away her tears a day before he was to report to prison

Many observers at the time said Blagojevich's best hope on appeal 
wasn't that a higher court would overturn his convictions but that 
appellate judges would agree his sentence was too harsh.

Appeals can take years to play out, and defendants rarely prevail.

Another Illinois governor convicted for corruption, George Ryan, 
filed multiple appeals over years and lost every key ruling. The former 
Republican leader was recently released after more than five years in 
prison and seven months of home confinement.

Secret wiretaps of an often foul-mouthed Blagojevich eager to earn big money were at the core of prosecutors' case.

"I've got this thing and it's f------ golden," jurors heard 
Blagojevich saying in one wiretapped conversation about Obama's vacated 
seat. "And I'm just not giving it up for f------ nothing."

As Inmate No. 40892-424 in the Federal Correctional Institution 
Englewood in suburban Denver, Blagojevich's life is highly regimented, 
including frequent head counts and having to wake at dawn.

'F**king Golden': Blagojevich wanted to appoint Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett to the Senate in exchange for an ambassadorship for himself

In a Facebook posting this year, Blagojevich's wife, Patti, said her 
husband is spending time in prison teaching Civil War history and 
learning to play the guitar. She added that he frequently jogs around a 
quarter-mile prison track.

"All that we have been left with is a aching hole in our lives," she added about herself and the couple's two daughters.

After the then-governor's Dec. 9, 2008 arrest, Blagojevich hit the 
talk show circuit to declare his innocence and to rail against 
prosecutors. He even appeared on Donald Trump's reality show, "The 
Apprentice."

@highlight

Blagojevich claims his prison sentence is too harsh

@highlight

The former governor was convicted on corruption charges after floating the idea of securing a U.S. Cabinet 
seat or ambassadorship for himself if he appointed Obama confidant 
Valerie Jarrett to the Senate seat

@highlight

Blagojevich's appeal is unlikely to be successful, experts sayThere can't always be a TV camera rolling when the big news happens - and Saturday Night Live has taken network news to task for how they paper over the cracks.

The NBC sketch show parodied the daytime CNN Newsroom, which turned into a series of let-downs when it emerged there was no footage for the stories they were covering.

But the ingenious producers for the skit managed to cover up with abysmal animations to illustrate the Germanwings crash, U.S.-Iran diplomacy, and domestic politics.

Scroll down for video  

Cutting edge: SNL writers joked that CNN's animations look like they belong in 1985. Above was 'their impression' of what the doomed pilot of the crashed Germanwings jet may have looked like trying to get into the cockpit

Real thing: Above is an actual animation CNN aired to illustrate the pilot not being able to get back in

An informative graphic of a man opening a door, and a producer's image of what the doomed pilot going to the bathroom may have looked like graced the screens, mocking their coverage of the tragedy.

It was seemingly inspired by a much-derided, clunky animation of a man hammering on a cockpit door. 

Cecily Strong, playing anchor Brooke Baldwin, introduced a badly-animated hand grasping at a doorknob.

A reporter then chimed in: 'We were lucky to get the same team who did the Dire Straits Money for Nothing music video in 1985.'

The problems continued when CNN was unable to get a fly-on-the-wall view of Iran's nuclear negotiations - and went for a puppet show instead.

Bobby Moynihan, playing a reporter on the ground, explained by saying: 'We couldn't get any footage from the actual negotiations - but once again CNN has the next best thing'.

'Next best thing': For its next story, CNN had no footage of the Iran nuclear animations, so went with Muppets-style puppets

Absurd: The network was imagined providing imagery for coverage of Indiana's religious freedom law through the medium of interpretative dance

Viewers were confronted with four Muppets-style puppets, including one representing John Kerry. A handshake to celebrate a deal being struck quickly escalated, with the Secretary of State sharing a passionate kiss with a U.S. diplomat.

The theater of the absurd peaked when the network admitted it hadn't bothered to send anybody to Indiana to cover the controversial religious freedom law there - so demonstrated with an interpretative dance instead.

They later added in 'random commentary' from Don Lemon, played by Michael Che, which consisted of the anchor repeating 'black people need to pull up their pants.' 

Then segment received a rapturous response on social media, with dozens of fans tweeting their appreciation.

Against the grain: Donald Trump spoke out against the skit, which he said was insensitive

Even some CNN personnel enjoyed the ribbing. Brenna Williams, an associate producer at the network, said in response to the Iran sketch: 'Don't be surprised if I pitch a puppet politics piece on Monday'

However, one high-profile dissenter was Donald Trump, who called laughing at the air disaster 'disgusting'.

Earlier in the show, sketchwriters turned their attention to the NCAA finals, hot on the heels of Duke's Blue Devils and the Wisconsin Badgers winning their way into the April 6 final.

Jahlil was busy: NBC imagined the impossible scenario of a college basketball player putting his studies ahead of sport

A satirical skit imagined the Blue Devils coach acknowledging that his players were students before athletes - and holding back Jahlil Okafor from the big game so he could revise for a test.

Keenan Thompson, posing as head coach Mike Krzyzewski, said star player Okafor would be replaced by a 36-year-old incompetent to bone up on biology instead.

He told baffled reporters: 'These guys get paid in education - and if we can't give them that it'd be like Duke didn't pay me my salary of $10million this year, which would be insane!'

@highlight

Sketch mocked network's coverage of air disaster and other major stories

@highlight

Brooke Baldwin stand-in admitted network had no actual footage of news

@highlight

Instead played awful 80s CGI recreation of inside of doomed passenger jet

@highlight

Illustrated Iran nuclear talks with puppets, and danced out controversial Indiana religious freedom law with Don Lemon chiming in

@highlight

Audience - including a CNN producer - tweeted their amusementThe door is firmly shut to Bill Cosby's return to NBC, the network's top entertainment executive said Friday.

'That's safe to say,' NBC Entertainment Chairman Bob Greenblatt said Friday when asked if the network would ever again do a project with Cosby, who 30 years ago was the sitcom king with the network's 'The Cosby Show.'

NBC's decision to sever ties with the 77-year-old comedian comes in the wake of multiple allegations of sexual assault against him, two lawsuits and a complaint to Los Angeles police earlier this week from a woman who says the comedian sexually abused her in 2008.

NBC's top entertainment executive says the door is firmly shut to Bill Cosby's return to the network. In the wake of new and renewed allegations of sexual assault against Cosby

The network said late last year it was dropping plans to develop a 'classic' family sitcom with him.

The series was announced in mid-2014, before a rising tide of accusations against Cosby by women who say he drugged and assaulted them.

During a question and answer session with the Television Critics Association, Greenblatt was asked to explain what tipped the network against working with Cosby, who was publicly fending off allegations from two women a decade ago.

Cosby has not been charged in any of the alleged assaults and has denied them. In 2005, he settled a civil suit filed by one woman that included claims of battery and assault.

'Fifteen women came out and accused him of what they accused him of,' Greenblatt said. Although Cosby hasn't been proven guilty of anything, 'when that many people come out and have such similar complaints, it became a tainted situation' and the network didn't want to proceed with the sitcom.

He's glad NBC 'is out from under that,' Greenblatt said.

Pressed to say precisely what number of accusers is seen as critical mass, Greenblatt replied: 'Fifteen, yes, two no.'

Cosby has faced more career fallout, including Netflix's decision to indefinitely postpone a comedy special and the cancellation of concerts in his ongoing tour.

The network said late last year it was dropping plans to develop a 'classic' family sitcom with Cosby

Meanwhile, Donald Trump said Friday that no consideration was given to editing the opening episode of the current season of "Celebrity Apprentice" in light of the Cosby controversy.

In that episode, filmed before the recent spate of allegations against Cosby became public, his former TV 'daughter' Keshia Knight Pulliam was eliminated from the competition by Trump because she refused to call Cosby for help with her charity.

The timing of the episode, which aired in January, became awkward.

'We didn't want to make any changes,' said Trump, the show's star. 'We're very happy with it. It became a very, very big topic of conversation.'

Cosby is planning to perform in Colorado this weekend despite expected protests and a new allegation of sexual misconduct which has launched a police probe.

The comedian released a statement on Thursday thanking his 'courageous' fans and saying he's ready to perform in Pueblo on Friday and at Denver's Buell Theater on Saturday, his first gigs in the U.S. this year.

He finished his statement with references to his 'Fat Albert' character's trademark line and to his 2013 television special: 'Hey, Hey, Hey - I'm Far From Finished.'

 

 

@highlight

NBC Entertainment Chairman Bob Greenblatt said network was done with Cosby, who 30 years ago was the sitcom king with the network's 'The Cosby Show'

@highlight

The network said late last year it was dropping plans to develop a 'classic' family sitcom with him

@highlight

Cosby has faced more career fallout, including Netflix's decision to indefinitely postpone a comedy special and the cancellation of concerts in his ongoing tourBy 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

11:54 EST, 25 November 2012


| 

UPDATED:

07:40 EST, 26 November 2012

It's not easy being one of the world's richest men and top philanthropists.

But with the fame and fortune of billionaire Stewart Rahr are numerous stories of tantrums, violence and pay-offs - all of which he denies.

Rahr, one of the world's richest men who sold his pharmaceutical supplier company Kinray for $1.3billion in 2010, is known for his mountain of photos with top celebrities, including Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, Mark Wahlberg, Alicia Keys, Andre Agassi and Joaquin Phoenix.

Rubbing elbows: Stewart Rahr, one of the world's richest men is perhaps best known for his mountain of photos with top celebrities, including Kim Kardashian and Kanye West

Famous friends: Rahr also has photos with music legend Clive Davis, left, as well as Russell Simmons and Brian Grazer, right

The New York Post reported that Rahr was willing to hand over a million dollars in an effort to get accepted at ultra-exclusive Sebonack Golf Club in Southampton, Long Island.

Security aficionado Bo Dietl told the Post: 'The guy was dying to get in there. So he actually handed me a blank check for a million dollars for the owner to give to a charity of his choice. I told [club founder Michael Pascucci], "Don’t let this douchebag in."'

Dietl added: 'I've known him for 20 years. He buys everybody.'

But Rahr tells a different story, saying that 'he came to me eight months later and wanted the check back. I said, "Forget it."'

Another incident stemmed from a dispute between Rahr and professional gambler RJ Cipriani.

Allegations: Professional gambler RJ Cipriani and his wife Greice Santo, have accused Rahr of trying to force his way into her hotel room

Cipriani told the Post that he was flying to Las Vegas recently with his wife Greice Santo and Rahr, and Rahr promised to look after his wife after he was unexpectedly called away to Los Angeles.

Santo claimed that Rahr grew angry with her after she refused to meet him and friends for dinner at the Wynn Hotel in Las Vegas.

She said that Rahr tried to force his way into her room at the hotel, and would not leave when she asked him to.

But Rahr again denied any wrongdoing, telling the Post: 'I tried to help the guy. I wish I’d never met him.'

Last week, it was reported that Rahr pulled a gun on an elevator operator at New York's Trump Tower after an altercation with the man.

When police arrived, Rahr was found to have a gun, which was confiscated by officers. He  claimed it wasn't loaded.

Earlier this month, Rahr was banned from top New York restaurant Nobu after the staff said that he allegedly threatened to kill the manager when he didn't get his favorite table.

Rahr reportedly sent a email of complaint to Nobu owner Drew Nieporent.

Rahr admits having a disagreement with a female manager but denied threatening to kill her after she ignored his phone call, according to the Post.

The paper reports that after the face-to-face confrontation with the manager, he sent a caps-locked tirade to Nieporent and CC'ed a group of his famous friends including Mark Wahlberg, Leonardo DiCaprio, Alicia Keys, Andre Agassi and Joaquin Phoenix.

Three other recipients have some political pull, including NYPD Commissioner Ray Kelly, Rahr's 'buddy' Donald Trump, and Robert DeNiro who co-owns the restaurant chain with Nieporent.

The dispute stems from an incident where the 66-year-old allegedly got into a verbal altercation with restaurant manager Sharon Hofstetter when Rahr tried to get his favorite table on the night of his wife's surprise birthday party.

Powerful pals: Rahr prides himself on his celebrity connections, seen here with Prince Harry at a polo match

Close: Rahr (right) sent an email complaint to the owner of Nobu and cc'ed a number of celebrities including Mark Wahlberg (second right). Though in this picture, Cindy Crawford, her husband Rande Gerber, and Jeremy Piven didn't get the email

He reportedly walked up to an occupied
table and asked the group who was dining there to move so that he could
have 'his' table.

A bartender told the paper that the group refused and he offered to pay their bill if they would agree.

Rahr, who calls himself 'Stewie Rah 
Rah- the No. 1 King of Fun', then left an irate message for Hofstetter, 
who was not at the restaurant at the time of the interaction.

She did not call him back immediately so he went to the restaurant on 57th Street to have it out with her in person. 

'He called me the c-word and said he would kill me,' Hofstetter told The Post.

Rahr claimed that Hofstetter was supposed to meet him at his office to plan the party in question, so he went to the restaurant to give her a piece of his mind.

'I told her "I can't stand you. You're despicable." Did I curse at her or threaten to kill her? No true- please. I would never say that,' Rahr told the paper.

Feeling like his message may not be clear, Rahr decided to send the email to Nieporent and copy his A-list pals.

Leading ladies: Rahr has been pictured with Victoria Beckham (left) and model Petra Nemcova (right)

'I GUESS THAT U R MUCH TOO BUSY TO 
CALL BACK AN UPSET CUSTOMER. I HAD TOLD U THAT I HAD A MAJOR PROBLEM 
& A VERY UNCOMFORTABLE EXPERIENCE CONCERNING A SURPRISE PARTY FOR A 
VERY VERY CLOSE FRIEND THIS PAST WEDS,' he wrote in the email.

Rahr,
who owned drug manufacturer Kinray until he sold it for $1.3billion in 
2010, went on to talk about his wealth in the email, using it as an 
unexpected way to rub his business savvy in Nieporent's face.

Upset: Stewart Rahr took issue with how he was treated at Nobu57 in Manhattan

'I
HAD ONLY 3 employees & revenues of only $40,000... WHEN I RECENTLY 
SOLD MY company last year I EMPLOYED almost 2,000 employees n REVENUES 
of $5,000,000,000 (thats what 5 BILLION (W AN 'B' AS IN BOY NOT AN 'M' 
AS IN MAN...' he wrote in the angry- and typo-laden- email.

Now, Rahr is no longer welcome at any of the 25 international Nobu locations.

Given
his affinity for self tanner and trademark uniform of purple t-shirts 
and yellow Ray Ban sunglasses, it would be easy to spot him if he tried 
to sneak in.

This is far from the first time that Rahr has used his connections to make a point, as he was described in a New York Observer profile of showing off his hundreds of photos with various celebrities.

And
he has no problem expressing his distaste for others: He openly 
bad-mouthed Tiger Woods, calling him 'the most selfish guy I know out of
the 500 celebrities on this wall', and had a PR back-and-forth over a 
slight to comedian George Lopez.

But
others in the celebrity world paint a different picture of Rahr, a man 
they say donates generously and has made a huge impact on the charities 
close to the rich and famous.

Among
them is Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, who told the Post that he 
has 'nothing but great things to say about [Rahr] and his generosity. 
Stewie Rah Rah has got a soft spot for those in need.'

Similar skin colors: Rahr, seen here with close friend Donald Trump, also sent the real estate mogul the email complaining about the service he received at Nobu

Banned: Now Rahr is no longer welcome at any of Nobu's 25 locations around the world

@highlight

Tales of rants and violence following the billionaire around the country

@highlight

Claims arise that he was rejected from exclusive golf club and recently got into spat with manager at Nobu

@highlight

Rahr sold Kinray for $1.3billion in 2010

@highlight

Others know him for his big heart and frequent donations to charityPUBLISHED:

14:09 EST, 30 October 2012


| 

UPDATED:

14:17 EST, 30 October 2012

There can only be one person in New York who would use Hurricane Sandy to garner yet more publicity for himself – and that is Donald Trump.

The billionaire real estate mogul, 66, launched into a self-serving attack on President Obama just hours after the devastating storm hit the East Coast.

And as the city struggled to recover from a blackout, Trump, 66, lashed out as he accused the President of using Sandy to win votes for next week’s election.

Trump tweet: The billionaire real estate mogul, 66, launched into a self-serving attack on President Obama just hours after the devastating storm hit the East Coast

He tweeted: ‘Not only giving out money, but Obama will be seen today standing in water and rain like he is a real President - don't fall for it.

'Hurricane is good luck for Obama again- he will buy the election by handing out billions of dollars.’

After offering $5 million to charity in a bid to get President Obama to produce his college records and passport application in a desperate publicity stunt, Trump today said he was extending the deadline until midday on Thursday due to the hurricane.

He tweeted: 'Another great cause Obama could send my $5M donation to is a charity for 9/11 First Responders. They are American heroes.

‘Don't let Obama buy the election by handing out unlimited free money to states,’ adding: ‘Remember this: Obama wants to raise taxes, @MittRomney wants to lower taxes - need I say more.’

Scathing: Trump claimed Hurricane Sandy would be 'good luck' for President Obama

Online abuse: The barrage of anti Obama tweets have left a sour taste in some people's mouths. Even Trump¿s good friend Barbara Walters has made a plea for him to stop

Trump also boasted that Trump Tower on 5th Avenue in Manhattan had stayed open last night during the storm, saying: ‘We are taking care of hundreds of people in the Trump Tower atrium - they are seeking refuge. Free coffee and food.

And posting a picture on Facebook, he wrote: ‘People having a great time in the Trump Tower atrium - unlike others, I stayed open.

U.S. President Barack Obama walks from the podium after delivering a statement on the Hurricane Sandy situation

'He then boasted: 'The Trump Tower atrium is such a great place & kept thousands of people warm & safe during the storm--thanks, staff'

As a broken crane continues to dangle 90 stories above a luxury building on West 57th street, Trump even found time to gripe: ‘I am the best builder but if that were my building with the crane mishap, I would have been lambasted from coast to coast.’

Even Trump’s good friend Barbara Walters has made a plea for him to stop.

On The View last week, the TV veteran begged: ‘You and I have known each other for many years.

‘And you know that I am your friend, and I think you are a brilliant businessman, and you are great on television, and you have a fascinating personality. Donald, you're making a fool of yourself.

‘You're not hurting Obama. You're hurting Donald, and that hurts me because you're a decent man.

Stop it. Get off it, Donald.’

Meanwhile, President Obama last week joked that Trump’s issue with him stemmed from a childhood feud in Kenya.

Trump's outpouring was met by general disdain from New Yorkers - including by model Chrissy Teigen, the fiancee of singer John Legend.The stunning brunette tweeted today: 'Finally unfollowed donald trump. my blood pressure skyrockets when he tweets and I will not allow him to have the pleasure any longer.'

And the Trump was keen not to stop as he continued with his onslaught of tweets, writing: 'The election is trending towards @MittRomney. Americans know we can't afford another 4 years of the Obama economic decline. 

'These last 4 years have not had a single quarter over 4% GDP. Obama has overseen the weakest economic recovery in American history'

To add insult to injury, Trump will inflict his views on the rest of America tonight when he appears on Late Night With Jimmy Fallon.

@highlight

The real estate mogul said the super storm had been 'good luck' for the President

@highlight

Trump's outpouring has been met with general disdain from New YorkersShelly Sterling has branded the NBA sexist for saying she will lose her share of the Los Angeles Clippers if her husband, disgraced owner Donald Sterling, does.

The league issued a statement on Sunday saying her 50 per cent share would be forfeited if team owners 
voted to force her husband - who was recorded making racial slurs two weeks ago - to sell.

'Would an owner's wife say the same thing 
and would the owner be asked to leave the NBA?' she posed in an interview with the Today show on Tuesday. 'Or would they say, "Ah 
she's only the wife"?'

She continued: 'Why am I the victim, when he's the perpetrator? If somebody kills somebody does the wife have to stand trial too?'

Scroll down for video

Determined: Shelly Sterling said in an interview with the Today show, which aired on Tuesday, that she will fight the NBA's attempts to take her shares of the LA Clippers 'as far as I can go'

Shock: Shelly Sterling watches her husband's latest TV interview beside Savannah Guthrie. She said she became emotional as she watched it because she knew there was something wrong with him

Speaking to Savannah Guthrie, she added that she was shocked when she watched her husband's latest interview with CNN, in which he sparked more controversy by saying Magic Johnson had done nothing to help the African-American community.

He made a series of disparaging remarks about Johnson's HIV-positive status - mistakenly saying he had AIDS - dismissing his work in charity and business and saying he's not a proper role model.

'What kind of a guy goes to every city, has sex with every girl, then he catches HIV?' he said.

'Is that someone we want to respect and tell our kids about? I think he should be ashamed of himself. I think he should go into the background. But what does he do for the black people? He doesn't do anything.'

Shelly told the Today show that she would stunned by the interview. 

Controversial: Donald Sterling apologized for his racist remarks in an interview on CNN - before attacking basketball legend Magic Johnson for 'doing nothing' for the African American community

'Why would he bring Magic Johnson into the
 issue of what's happening now?' she asked. 'That's where I felt pity because he 
couldn't connect the dots.'

She said she believes her estranged husband - whom she intends to divorce - has dementia.

'He's not the man I know - or I knew. There's something wrong,' she said. 'I don't think it happened overnight, I think it's been happening, but no one really knew the reason.'

League commissioner Adam Silver banned Sterling for life and fined him $2.5million after recordings of him grumbling racial slurs at his presumed girlfriend V Stiviano were made 
public two weeks ago.

He told CNN on Sunday that he will do 
everything in his power to keep control of the Clippers despite the 
league having already installed an interim CEO to run the team.

Hours after Shelly Sterling said she would fight to keep her ownership of the franchise even if her estranged husband can't, the league said that wouldn't be possible.

Former couple: Sterling is seen at an LA Clippers game with his now-estranged wife in May 2012

Offense: Magic Johnson, left, smiles as NBA Commissioner Adam Silver looks on while they watch the Clippers this weekend. Silver has banned Sterling from the league for life following his remarks

'Under the NBA constitution, if a controlling owner's interest is terminated by a three-quarter vote, all other team owners' interests are automatically terminated as well,' an NBA spokesman said.

'It doesn't matter whether the owners are related as is the case here. These are the rules to which all NBA owners agreed to as a condition of owning their team.'

Shelly's attorney, Pierce O'Donnell, responded to the NBA's statement.

'We do not agree with the league's self-serving interpretation of its constitution, its application to Shelly Sterling or its validity under these unique circumstances,' O'Donnell said. 'We live in a nation of laws. California law and the United States Constitution trump any such interpretation.'

Sterling also told ABC News on Sunday that she 'would love him to' consider transferring ownership to her if he is forced to sell.

See below for video

Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy

@highlight

The league has said Shelly Sterling's share of the LA Clippers would be forfeited if team owners vote to force her husband to sell

@highlight

In a new interview, she said the NBA based its decision on the fact she is a woman and vowed to fight the league 'as far as I can go'

@highlight

She said she believes Donald Sterling has dementia

@highlight

In his latest interview, he made a series of disparaging remarks about Magic Johnson and said he was not a role model

@highlight

Outburst came two weeks after recordings of his racial slurs were leakedBy 
David Martosko

PUBLISHED:

16:46 EST, 23 April 2013


| 

UPDATED:

15:20 EST, 24 April 2013

Disgraced former congressman Anthony Weineris running for mayor of New York City, and he's back on Twitter, the social networking portal that destroyed his national political career. And Donald Trump is not amused.

'Sexting Pervert @anthonyweiner has returned to twitter,' Trump warned in a tweet on Tuesday. 'Parents of all underage girls should BLOCK him immediately!'

In a second zinger, the Celebrity Apprentice star and real estate mogul asked the question that's now on New Yorkers' minds: 'Will @anthonyweiner be fully clothed in his mayoral ads?'

The Donald has never been accused of keeping his thoughts to himself, and Anthony Weiner could be a casualty of the Celebrity Apprentice's massive reach on Twitter

A contrite Weiner announced his resignation from Congress on June 16, 2011 following an earlier press conference where he admitted sextng a series of women over three years

This isn't the first time The Donald has tweeted his outrage at Weiner's re-entry into politics at a high level. 'Sexual pervert Anthony Weiner has zero business holding public office,' he tweeted two weeks ago.

In July 2012 when Weiner popped out from hiding to test the mayoral waters, Trump warned that 'he's a sexual pervert & they can never be healed.'

He also advised Huma Abedin, Weiner's wife, that she 'should drop him before it happens again.'

The 'it' is a reference to the scandal that plummeted Weiner from the heights of national political popularity after he tweeted suggestive private messages to several young women not named Huma Abedin. The two had been married for less than a year when the scandal developed.

Donald Trump resumed his tweet-beating of Anthony Weiner on Tuesday, taking jabs at his mayoral aspirations

If Weiner were to go bare-chested in his ads, Trump would certainly yell, 'You're Fired!' - but few New York City voters say they plan to give him a chance

Weiner's exit from the political stage began when one tweet was found to contain a photograph of his erect penis straining against his underwear. He mistakenly sent it as a public tweet instead of a private message, showing millions of Americans what he was doing in his spare time and, some said, from his Capitol Hill office.

Another photo unveiled later showed a bare-chested Weiner photographing himself in front of a mirror.

Weiner claimed for weeks that his Twitter account had been hacked, but he was dogged all the way by conservative media raconteur Andrew Breitbart, who demanded his resignation daily and insisted that his deception made him unfit for office.

The liberal Democrat ultimately stepped down from the House of Representatives in June 2011 after serving nearly seven terms, offering an apology to his constituents - and to Breitbart personally.  He had remained largely out of the public eye since then.

The tweet heard 'round the world showed Weiner's genitals, and was meant for a female admirer, but he mistakenly sent it as a message that the world could see. The bare-chested selfie emerged later when a woman who shared it with Andrew Breitbart's website said Weiner emailed it to her

In the months following his resignation, the disgraced former congressman stayed out of the public eye, appearing only a few times on the street of New York with his wife, Huma Abedin, and their son Jordan

In a circus-like 2011 press conference, Weiner admitted that he had 'exchanged messages and photos of an explicit nature with about six women over the last three years.'

Those women included the pornographic actress Ginger Lee, a Las Vegas blackjack dealer, and a 26-year-old single mother from Texas.

Breitbart died tragically of a heart attack the following February.

Weiner has kept his tweeting to a minimum since rejoining the network under a new handle - @anthonyweiner instead of @RepWeiner.

The most recent of his only three tweets advocates that New York City employees who use tobacco should be forced to pay higher health insurance premiums than their nonsmoking colleagues.

A representative for Trump didn't respond to an email seeking comment. Weiner's attorney and representative also didn't return a phone call.

In his darkest days, constituents were echoing calls for his resignation. This sign, hoisted outside a car in front of Weiner's ueens, New York home, read, 'Fit for Congress? Resign now!'

Trump, shown in the April 2013 All Star Celebrity Apprentice broadcast, may have the last laugh since his Twitter account, @realDonaldTrump, reaches more than 2.1 million readers

But the former congressman wil have an uphill climb if he wants to succeed Mayor Michael Bloomberg. A recent poll showed that just 16 per cent of New Yorkers would vote for him, compared to 25 per cent support for City Council Speaker Christine Quinn.

A separate poll indicated that more than half of registered Democrats would not even consider voting for him.

In July 2012, Trump tweeter that when he was 'in his prime, I predicted that @RepWeiner would never be mayor & I was right for all of the wrong reasons.'

@highlight

Shamed former seven-term congressman will run for NYC mayor despite sexting scandal that torpedoed his Washington career

@highlight

Trump has warned Weiner's wife to leave him 'before it happens again'

@highlight

Recent polls show Weiner with just 16 per cent support among likely votersHillary Clinton is a politician of 'yesterday' Florida Sen. Marco Rubio told a gathering of conservatives on Friday.

In a word-association game with Fox News host Sean Hannity, the Republican senator - considered likely to run for the White House in 2016 - offered a scathing assessment of the Democrat, who is expected to announce her own presidential campaign later this year.

Hannity asked Rubio about former president Bill Clinton to which Rubio first replied, 'What's the next one?' before saying the 42nd president of the United States is 'really yesterday'.

Asked about the current Commander in Chief, Barack Obama, Rubio simply said: 'failed.'

Rubio was the first in a line of likely Republican presidential candidates to address attendees of the annual Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday morning, now in its second day of speakers. 

Florida Senator Marco Rubio told a gathering of conservatives on Friday that Hillary Clinton is a politician of 'yesterday.' The freshman lawmaker said he is still undecided about his political plans while acknowledging that he wants to 'pay back in some way' the country for the opportunities it has provided his family

'I don't want to be in politics my whole life,' Rubio told Fox News Host Sean Hannity during a question and answer session during his appearance. He noted that he'd perhaps like to own an NFL team at some point. 'I don't know, I'd have to sell a lot of books for that,' the two time author joked

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, former Hewlett Packard executive Carly Fiorina,  Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson all spoke to the confab on Thursday.

Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, billionaire businessman Donald Trump, Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush were set to take the main stage on Friday. 

A notable exception to lineup was former Arkansas Gov. and Fox News host Mike Huckabee, who has said he is considering a bid in 2016 yet didn't participate in the Washington, D.C. area powwow that attracts roughly 10,000 conservatives from across the country each year.'

Rubio, the son of Cuban immigrants, said Friday he is still undecided about his own political plans while acknowledging that he wants to 'pay back in some way' the country for the opportunities it has provided his family.

'I don't want my kids to come up and one day ask me, "how come you got to grow up in the greatest country in the world, but we get to grow up in a country's that's been diminished?" ' Rubio said.

The freshman senator said would 'have to decide through careful prayer' if running for president is the best decision at this stage in his life. 

Rubio reaffirmed that if he does make a play for the presidency, he won't seek reelection to his Senate seat even though Florida law allows him to do both simultaneously.

'I think if you want to want to be president, you decide that's what you've been called at this time in your life to at least run for, you believe that''s the best way for your to serve America, that's what you run for,' he told Hannity. 

'The truth is Sean, I don't want to be in politics my whole life,' he added, noting that he'd perhaps like to own an NFL team at some point. 

'I don't know, I'd have to sell a lot of books for that,' the two time author joked.

Results of the conference's straw poll for the presidential race weren't to be revealed until Saturday evening, but based on the number the conference goers who showed up to see Rubio speak and stayed until the end of his 20 minute session, he's likely to take a top placement. 

After Perry, who drew a noticeably smaller crowd that Rubio in the first place, finished his prepared remarks, guests flooded out of the room before the interview portion of his appearance began. 

 

@highlight

Rubio was the first in a line of likely GOP presidential candidates to address the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday morning

@highlight

Asked  about former President Bill Clinton Rubio first replied, 'What''s the next one?' before saying he is 'really yesterday'

@highlight

The freshman senator said would 'have to decide through careful prayer' if running for president is the best decision at this stage in his lifeIvanka Trump marked off an important milestone in her daughter's life yesterday when she took the three-year-old ice skating for the first time. 

The 33-year-old shared a heartwarming picture of herself, her husband Jared Kushner and their young daughter at the Trump Rink on Sunday afternoon on her Instagram account.

'Today was Arabella's first time ice skating,' she wrote alongside the candid snap. 'Such fun! Even Joseph was cheering from the sidelines! a big thank you to the great team at the #TrumpRink in Central Park!'

Scroll down for video 

Talented trio: Ivanka Trump (R) and her husband Jared Kushner (L) took their three-year-old daughter Arabella for her first ice skating session in Central Park on Sunday 

Baking up a storm: Earlier in the week, the three-year-old was busy in the kitchen making a birthday cake for her father, who celebrated his 34th on Saturday 

In the picture, both Ivanka and Jared, 34, can be seen offering a supportive arm to Arabella, who is sensibly clad in a warm jacket, rose-colored mittens, colorful fuzzy hat and - most importantly - a protective helmet. 

And despite it being her first time on the rink, the youngster looks fairly at easy on the ice, happily standing alongside her parents, while her one-year-old brother Joseph watched from the sidelines. 

It was a busy weekend for the family, who spent Saturday celebrating real estate mogul Jared's 34th birthday. 

On Friday, Ivanka posted a picture of Arabella in the kitchen, whipping up what was no doubt a delicious birthday cake for her father, while wearing a costume inspired by Disney's hit animated movie Frozen. 

Alongside the image, Ivanka joked: 'A shockingly small amount of frosting actually made it past Arabella's lips and on to her daddy's birthday cake!'

In between all of the family-focused fun however, Ivanka, who has been hard at work filming and promoting the current season of Celebrity Apprentice alongside her famous father Donald, and her husband managed to enjoy a rare night off from their parenting duties in order to celebrate Jared's birthday with a trip to the Royal Palms Shuffleboard Club in Brooklyn.

The entrepreneur shared a couple of images from their evening out on the town, one of which shows her looking incredibly focused on the game in hand - while dressed casually in a pair of black jeans and a knitted jumper. 

Competitive: The 33-year-old heiress and her husband enjoyed a rare night off from parenting duties in order to celebrate Jared's birthday at the Royal Palms Shuffleboard Club in Brooklyn, New York

You're hired! Ivanka took her children to visit their grandfather on the set of Celebrity Apprentice earlier this year

It has been a whirlwind few weeks for Ivanka, who enjoyed a relaxing sun-filled holiday in the Maldives with her family over Christmas, followed by a New Year's getaway at her father's Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, Florida.

Two weeks ago, Ivanka discussed the challenges of balancing a career with motherhood during an appearance on Good Morning America to promote her #WomenWhoWork social media initiative.

'All the women I know, this next generation, they're working hard, not just in a professional capacity but really in all aspects of their life. They're not one dimensional. They're doing things outside of the office and inside of the office and living in this digital age where we really do just live one life 24 hours a day, and I wanted to celebrate that,' she said.

'There isn't this clear compartmentalization that used to exist, where it was work and home. Now it's just one life, and I think that's something really unique to my generation,' she added.

'Coming up in the workforce where we're on the phone with our kids while we're in the office, and yet at home at three in the morning catching up on the work because we made it there to put them to bed.'

@highlight

The 33-year-old and her husband Jared Kushner took Arabella and her younger brother Joseph to the Trump Rink in New York City on Sunday

@highlight

The family celebrated Jared's 34th birthday on Saturday, with a cake cooked especially by Arabella House Speaker John Boehner has been afforded no rest after the passage of the fiscal cliff bill.

He has been forced to put down a revolt by conservatives furious about the $620billion in tax hikes he pushed through the House. He has also been subjected to withering criticism from Republicans in New York and New Jersey - including Governor Chris Christie - for failing to bring a bill with $60billion in Hurricane Sandy to a vote.

President Barack Obama, meanwhile, has been vacationing on the sunny beaches of Hawaii - leaving Washington just hours after the deal made it through Congress on Tuesday night. 

The White House released a series of 
year-end photos of the President on Wednesday. The first picture in the 
series was of shot of a jubilant Obama frolicking in the warm Hawaiian waters.

Scroll down for video

Shaky ground: House Speaker John Boehner faces an uncertain political future following wranglings over the fiscal cliff and further criticism for not pushing a vote on a Sandy relief bill

Wish you were here! This photo of President Barack Obama frolicking in the waves of Kaneohe Bay in Hawaii on January 1, 2012 was released on Wednesday

It's a sneaky move that could be interpreted as twisting the dagger in the embattled Boehner, who is in the midst of fighting for political life in chilly Washington.

Boehner appears likely to be re-elected as Speaker of the House of Representatives when the 113th United States Congress is sworn in at midday on Thursday.

While some conservatives had said that 20 or more House Republicans were prepared to mount a challenge to Boehner, no one has been willing to step forward as a rallying figure - an indication that the position is in some ways one of the most difficult and thankless in politics.

Boehner's job as Speaker had been under threat after just 85 members of his Republican caucus voted for a fiscal cliff deal that 151 opposed and nearly all Democrats backed.

Most ominously, his own leadership team publicly split from him over the vote with House Majority Leader Eric Cantor and Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy opposing the bill.

Embattled: New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said today the John Boehner had refused to take his calls last night over the $60bn Sandy relief bill which is desperately needed in his home state

To add to his woes, Boehner - who faces re-election as Speaker on Thursday - had been lambasted by New Jersey's Governor Chris Christie, a potential 2016 presidential candidate, for failing to bring to a vote a $60billion relief bill for those affected by Hurricane Sandy.

Governor Christie denounced the 'disappointing and disgusting' spectacle of fiscal cliff manoeuvrings that showed a 'callous indifference' for the people of New Jersey. 

Christie said on Wednesday: 'I called the Speaker four times last night after 11.20pm and he did not take my calls.'

But Boehner was able to placate his House Republicans, most notably the outspoken Representative Peter King of New York, by promising to bring the hurricane relief bill to a vote at the beginning of the new Congress.

At one point during the fiscal cliff negotiations, Boehner had been overheard on the House floor saying: 'Am I having a nightmare, or what?'

Boehner took the highly unusual step of voting personally for the Senate bill that had passed overwhelmingly in the other house - just as Speaker Schuyler Colfax was portrayed as doing in the movie Lincoln in voting for the 13th Amendment and the end of slavery.

Tough talk: Paul Ryan voted for the fiscal cliff deal because it was in the interest of the American people

In another indication of a bitterly divided party, the bill pitted another two top Republican prospects for the 2016 White House race against each other. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida voted no and Representative Paul Ryan, the 2012 vice-presidential nominee, voted yes.

According to Republican sources, Cantor and McCarthy voted against the bill even though they had earlier pressured rank-and-file members to support it, while Ryan - another so-called Republican 'Young Gun' in the House - was expected to join them but changed his mind at the last minute.

Ryan later said in a statement: 'Will the American people be better off if this law passes relative to the alternative?

'In the final analysis, the answer is undoubtedly yes. I came to Congress to make tough decisions - not to run away from them.'

The influential conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer said on Fox News on Tuesday that it was 'possible' that Cantor's opposition to the bill  'is the prelude to a challenge Thursday', when the new Congress elected last November convenes.

Krauthammer said: 'It would be naked to do it at this late hour as a result of the split over this vote. Look, there are a lot of conservatives in the Republican caucus in the House who hate the bill and for good reason. 

'This is a complete surrender on everything. The ratio of tax hikes to spending cuts is 40 to 1, rather than one to one or one to two or one to three. So, I mean it's a complete rout by the Democrats.'

Via Twitter, Newt Gingrich, the former House Speaker and 2012 presidential candidate, stated that Republicans had been engaged in 'a two month dance of defeat and surrender'.

Disaster: Boats are seen in a yard, where they washed onto shore during Hurricane Sandy, near Monmouth Beach, New Jersey after the storm lashed the East Coast

Long road to recovery: Robert Connolly, left, embraces his wife Laura as they survey the remains of the home owned by her parents in Breezy Point, New York during Superstorm Sandy. There has been a delay on $60bn relief for those affected

Donald Trump chipped in, also via Twitter: 'I am a Republican... but the Republicans may be the worst negotiators in history!'

Multiple accounts of the fiscal cliff negotiations revealed that Boehner appeared to lose his composure on a number of occasions, most notably when he told Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, the top Democrat on Capitol Hill, to 'go f*** yourself' during a White House meeting.

Christie's broadside against Boehner was also notable because he singled out Cantor as having done his best to bring the Hurricane Sandy bill to a vote.

But Cantor's apparent attempts to get the fiscal cliff bill passed make him an unlikely rallying figure against Boehner, at least in the short term. 

Erick Erickson, a leading conservative figure, used his RedState blog to dismiss the votes of Cantor and McCarthy, saying: 'His was opportunism, not courage.'

@highlight

Eric Cantor and Kevin McCarthy voted against fiscall cliff bill that Boehner supported but they will back him in today's vote

@highlight

Boehner had to placate north-eastern Republicans after New Jersey Governor Christie said fiscal cliff manoeuvrings showed a 'callous indifference' to those in his stateBill Maher might have made the most costly joke of his career after Donald Trump called the liberal comedian out on a challenge to release his birth certificate.

On Monday's 'Tonight Show with Jay Leno', Maher, 56, said that he would donate $5 million to the charity of Trump's choice if the 'Celebrity Apprentice' host was able to prove that he is not the 'spawn of his mother having sex with an orangutan.'

However, on Tuesday, Scott S. Balber, a lawyer for Trump, 66, sent the host of HBO's 'Real Time with Bill Maher' a letter with the property magnate's birth certificate attached and asked the comedian who is estimated to be worth $40 million to come up with the cash and honor his ultimatum.

Scroll Down for Video

Bring it: Bill Maher (left) joked on the 'Tonight Show' in January that he would pay $5 million to charity if Donald Trump released his birth certificate

The letter came with a birth certificate attached 'demonstrating that he is the son of Fred Trump, not an orangutan. Please remit the $5 million to Mr. Trump immediately,' according to Yahoo News.

Rather than choosing to donate the money to 'Hair Club for Men' or 'The Institute for Incorrigible Douchebaggery' as Maher suggested, Trump indicated he wants to give $1 million each to charities for the Hurricane Sandy Victims, The Police Athletic League, The American Cancer Society, The March of Dimes and the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.

Maher was of course mocking Trump's much maligned YouTube announcement in October that he would donate $5 million of his own money to charity if President Obama would release his college records.

Creating feverish anticipation in October, Trump declared that he had 'something very, very, big concerning the president of the United States' that could 'possibly' change the election.

Demands: Donald Trump has called on Bill Maher to quickly pay up on the $5 million that he offered as a challenge on Monday night after he was referred to as the child of an orangutan (right) by the comedian

Evidence: Lawyers for Donald Trump were swift to issue the property billionaire's birth certificate - releasing it the day after Maher's challenge

Speculation in the hours before Trump revealed his challenge was rife that he may indeed have discovered scandalous information about Barack Obama, who released his own birth certificate to the public following massive media pressure led by Trump himself.

'Barack Obama is the least transparent president in the history of this country,' said Trump in his YouTube video released in October.

'I'm very honored to have gotten him to release his long-form birth certificate or whatever it may be.

'If Barack Obama opens up and gives his college records and application and if he gives his passport applications and records, I will give to a charity of his choice - inner-city children in Chicago, American Cancer Society, AIDS research, anything he wants - a check immediately for $5 million.'

At the time, Barack Obama was not concerned and joked to Jay Leno himself on the 'Tonight Show' that the bad blood between himself and Trump stems back to an argument 'when we were growing up together in Kenya.'

Appearing on the 'Tonight Show' on Monday night, Maher was openly mocking Trump's failed attempt in October (right) to persuade President Obama to release his college and passport records

LOL: Following Donald Trump's offer to pay $5 million to a charity of his choice, President Obama laughed off any suggestion that he reveal his college or passport records

On Monday night though, firebrand Maher was massively outspoken about Trump while appearing on Leno's show.

Comparing Trump to an orangutan, Maher was drawing a comparison between the famously sandy hair of the New York billionaire and the great ape that roams the jungles of South East Asia.

In addition to calling Trump the son of an orangutan, Maher labeled Trump a 'liar' and a 'racist' and a 'douche bag' as he reacted to some derogatory tweets that Trump had posted online about him.

@highlight

On Monday's 'Tonight Show with Jay Leno', Maher, said that he would donate $5 million to the charity of Donald Trump's choice if he released his birth certificate

@highlight

On Tuesday a lawyer for Trump sent the host of HBO's 'Real Time with 
Bill Maher' a letter with the property magnates birth certificate

@highlight

Trump the asked the comedian who is estimated to be worth $40 million
 to come up with the cashBy
Katy Winter

Every child wants the room of their dreams. And now a bed company that creates handmade fantastical bedrooms for A-list offspring has the power to make them come true.

A host of celebrities have used PoshTots to custom-make their offspring a bed worthy of royalty, Hollywood or otherwise.

From Jay-Z and Beyonce and Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin to Julia Roberts and Donald Trump Jr, there is barely a big name in showbiz that hasn't tapped into the company's prowess, purchasing bespoke designs 
that can turn their children’s bedrooms into a magical world.

The Princess  Rose Daybed, £6,184 ($9,900) features hand carved rose garland embellishment and Swarovski rhinestones can be added for an additional charge

The stunning Sunken Viking Ship Bed and deep sea mural are custom designed and no specific price is given

If you want your child to have full scope to let their imagination run wild the English Tudor Cottage Bed costs an eye watering £21,868 ($35,000)

Supermodel Heidi Klum and Seal chose a fairy-tale concept for their daughter Leni's room, while last year Jay-Z and Beyonce took delivery of a £30,000 coach carriage crib for baby Blue Ivy.

Other happy high profile clients have included Ben Stiller, actor Dylan McDermott and Law & Order star Benjamin Bratt, as well as tennis ace Pete Sampras.

PoshTots' incredible detailed designs allow the creation of such masterpieces as a Viking ships, complete with sea mural, and a to-scale Tudor cottage bed.

Quite literally bringing childhood dreams to life, the visually stunning beds could have fallen out of a fairy-tale book.

Of course, such high design doesn't come cheap.

Celebrities such as Gwyneth Paltrow have purchased beds from the bespoke company, with Beyonce and husband Jay-Z purchasing a PoshTot's coach carriage crib for daughter Blue Ivy

For the baby that has everything PoshTot's have created the Majestic Carriage Crib which costs £7,185 ($11,500). It's constructed with a solid cedar frame and birch details and features a front faux leather seat with the rear box designed as a changing table

The spectacular Fantasy Coach is custom designed, with prices starting at £40,607 ($65,000). It takes over 6 months to make and the oval-shaped interior measures just over 6 ft. in diameter

The Richmond, Virginia company was started thirteen years ago by founder Andrea Edmunds. Pictured is the Fairytale Gardens Mural and Carriage Bed, (price on application)

If you want your little ones to constantly feel on holiday you could invest in the Tropical Surf Shack Bunk Bed at £9995 ($16,000)

The tropical surf shack bunk bed will set you back £10,000, while a 'Chuckwagon' Wild West toddler bed also costs £10,000, with even the more basic designs ranging from around £500 to £1,200.

The company also sells bedding and bedroom furniture, as well as mural designs to adorn walls for those who want to complete the transformation of bedroom to fairy grotto, princess palace, or pirate ship at sea.

The Richmond, Virginia company began thirteen years ago when founder Andrea Edmunds was expecting her second child and wanted to create a special ‘grown-up room for her little girl to move into.

After struggling to find just the right balance of quality and creativity for the bedrooms, Andrea created PoshTots to source artisans who could design the unique creations.

@highlight

PoshTots, based in Richmond, Virginia, make custom children's beds

@highlight

Launched when Andrea Edmunds created 'grown-up' room for her eldest

@highlight

Bespoke designs cover all themes from tropical island to Star Wars

@highlight

Favourite among stars like Beyonce, Heidi Klum and Ben Stiller

@highlight

Cost up to £30,000 for a single crib A former factory girl is set to become China's richest woman - worth nearly £4.9 billion.

Zhou Qunfei, 45, will top the rich list after her company LENS Technology went public on the Growth Enterprise Market, reports The People's Daily.

Shares for the company, which supplies protective window glass used in Apple devices, have rocketed since the Initial Public Offering (IPO) on March 5.

Rich: Zhou Qunfei, who launched Lens Technology, is one of richest women in China

Having risen to 45 times their value, the rise is certain to propel Zhou, who owns nearly 98 per cent of the company, to become China's richest woman. 

Her husband, Zheng Junlong, has 1.4 per cent of company shares, taking their combined ownership to more than 99 per cent. 

Microsoft owner Bill Gates: £45.5 billion

Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg: £17 billion 

Britain's richest person, landlord Gerald Grosvenor: £7.7 billion

Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich: £5.4 billion 

Virgin founder Richard Branson: £3 billion

Film director Steven Spielberg: £2 billion

American business tycoon Donald Trump: 2.7 million 

Designer Ralph Lauren: £4.2 billion

Originally a  'factory girl' in Shenzhen, her growth in the industry has earned her the nickname 'Queen of mobile phone glass,' commanding an annual salary of more than £1.5 million.

According to company sources, Zhou worked at Bai En for many years and left before founding Lens Technology - which is now the company's biggest competitor - in 2003.

Born in the Hunan province, she relocated to Guangdong where she learned how to make glass for watches before later moving onto the multimedia, consumer electronics and the mobile device screen market she would later dominate.

Big earner: Richard Branson was worth £3 billion last year

Shortly after establishing the company - which specialises in the production of protective window glass, used in mobile phones, tablet PCs, notebook PCs, and consumer electronic products - she moved the factory to her home town of Hunan.

Brokers estimate that Lens Technology's market value could reach 53 billion yuan with Zhou's personal worth climbing to 46.6 billion yuan, or £4.87 billion.

It shipped 476 billion pieces of protective glass in 2013, including 451 million for mobile phones and 25.5 million for table PCs, with a market share of 23.37 per cent. 

Humble beginnings: Zhou Qunfei started her working life in a factory and is now thought to be the richest woman in China worth nearly £5 billion (stock image)

@highlight

Her company LENS Technology supplies window glass for Apple devices

@highlight

45-year-old started work as factory girl at rival glassmaker Bai En

@highlight

Initial Public Offering has seen shares rocket to 45 times value Businessman Donald Trump and comedian Russell Brand engaged in a nasty Twitter spat on Thursday.

The digital fight started when Trump tweeted that the Forgetting Sarah Marshall star is a 'major loser.' Brand, however, hit back - and eventually suggested that Trump is not the entrepreneur he has claimed to be, by linking to an an article that mentioned his multi-million dollar inheritance and financial aid from the US government.

'I watched Russell Brand @rustyrockets on the @jimmyfallon show the other night—what the hell do people see in Russell—a major loser!' Trump first wrote.

Trump's comments came three days after Brand appeared on 'Late Show with David Letterman' on Monday. Brand is not scheduled as a guest this week on 'The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon'.

Scroll down for video  

Attack: Donald Trump called comedian Russell Brand 'a major loser' on Twitter Thursday 

Split: Pop star Katy Perry and Russell Brand were married in 2010 and legally divorced in 2012  

Insult: Trump posted this message slamming Brand on Tuesday 

Trump then published another tweet, which read '.@katyperry must have been drunk when she married Russell Brand @rustyrockets – but he did send me a really nice letter of apology!'

It was not immediately clear what 'letter of apology' Trump was referring to.  

Perry and Brand were married in 2010 and divorced two years later, with Perry telling Vogue in June 2013 that Brand announced his intention to divorce in a 2011 New Year's Eve text message.

Brand soon retaliated and responded to Trump's second message with jokes about Trump's sobriety and his much-lampooned hairline.

'.@realDonaldTrump are you drunk when you write these tweets? Or does that foam you spray on your bald head make you high?' he tweeted.

Brand later tweeted '.@realDonaldTrump I don't think your daddy left you any witty ripostes, and everything you have you inherited.'

Included in that tweet was a link to an excerpt from 'The Self-Made Myth: The Truth About How Government Helps Individuals and Businesses Succeed' - which disputed Trump's image that he independently built a real estate empire.

Trump inherited between $40million and $200million from his father Fred Trump - who himself received government funds in both the Great Depression and World War Two for projects, according to the excerpt.

Counterattack: Brand replied to Trump's message about his marriage to Katy Perry with jokes about Trump's sobriety and his hairline

Strike back: Brand eventually linked to an an article that mentioned Trump's multimillion-dollar from his father inheritance and financial aid from the US government

 Fighting words: Brand also linked to a second article which slammed Trump on several fronts 

When Donald Trump was head of The Trump Organization in 1990 and the company faced a $5billion debt, 'The survival of the company was made possible only by a bailout pact agreed upon in August of that same year by some 70 banks, allowing Trump to defer on nearly $1 billion in debt, as well as to take out second and third mortgages on almost all of his properties,' the book excerpt argued. 'If it were not for the collective effort of all banks and parties involved in that 1990 deal, Trump’s business would have gone bankrupt and failed.'

Brand later tweeted '.@realDonaldTrump Also -' and included a link to an April 2011 opinion article from The Atlantic which slammed Trump on several fronts.

That article quoted 'a former Deutsche Bank employee familiar with Trump from this $640-million deal gone awry on the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Chicago. Trump was sued to collect on a $40-million personal guarantee that was part of the deal.'

Direct address: Trump tweeted at Katy Perry 'I watched Russell Brand and I think his mind is fried - he looks really bad. Russell is a total joke, a dummy who is lost!'

Trump went on to Tweet at Perry following Brand's links 

Silence: Perry has so far not responded to the feud on Twitter

'[The Chicago deal] was pretty minor given all the other things going on at the time,' the ex-employee told The Atlantic. 'Real estate developers do default from time to time. But this guy has been doing it for 20 years, failing. Remember the Trump Shuttle? That's why he'll never run. His finances just won't hold up to scrutiny. It's pretty well known in financial circles that this guy is a deadbeat.'

Included in the piece was an April 2011 NBC report around the time Trump considered running for president, which reported Trump had faced multiple casino bankruptcies and lawsuits from various business ventures.

Following Brand's tweets, Trump later pulled Perry more directly into the spat, writing '.@katyperry Katy, what the hell were you thinking when you married loser Russell Brand. There is a guy who has got nothing going, a waste!'

He also tweeted '.@katyperry I watched Russell Brand and I think his mind is fried - he looks really bad. Russell is a total joke, a dummy who is lost!'

Perry has so far not responded to the feud on Twitter. 

@highlight

Businessman Donald Trump and comedian Russell Brand engaged in a nasty digital fight on Thursday

@highlight

The Twitter spat began when Trump tweeted that Brand is 'a major loser'

@highlight

Brand eventually suggested that Trump is not the entrepreneur he has claimed to be

@highlight

He linked to an an article that mentioned Trump's multi-million dollar inheritance from his father and financial aid from the US governmentJeffrey Epstein,  the billionaire child abuser friend of Prince Andrew , cultivated an extraordinary range of contacts - from President Bill Clinton to Mick Jagger - it is revealed today.

Court documents obtained by MailOnline disclose how Epstein kept multiple phone numbers, email and home addresses for the great and the good on both sides of the Atlantic.

The document was presented as an exhibit as lawyers sought a court's permission to take evidence from Bill Clinton and his staff, for whom Epstein had 21 numbers, all under the name of his former advisor Doug Band.

Epstein also had multiple contact details for a string of celebrities, including the Rolling Stones frontman Sir Mick Jagger; Donald Trump's ex-wife Ivana and their daughter Ivanka; and a series of women recorded under 'massage' in the document, nicknamed 'The Holy Grail' by a former employee.

The contents of the document are disclosed by MailOnline as Prince Andrew, the Queen's second son, fights back against allegations that he had sex with Virginia Roberts - who claims she was kept by Epstein as a 'sex slave' - when she was a 17-year-old minor.

Scroll down for video 

High powered: Convicted pedophile Jeffrey Epstein had 21 numbers for President Bill Clinton and his staff in his book - all under the name  of his former adviser Doug Band

Friends in high places: The page from the records which shows the extent of his records for Bill Clinton. DailyMail.com is obscuring the actual details

There is no suggestion the presence of the names means that they are accused of any form of wrongdoing.

The document's existence was disclosed in a series of papers marked Epstein v Edwards at the Federal Court for Southern Florida.

The case was first filed in 2010 and in April 2011 supplementary documents disclosed the existence of 'The Journal'. 

The list of names and addresses points to the vast reach of Epstein's social circle and takes on new light in the wake of the accusation leveled at Prince Andrew.

It includes a series of politicians in the USA, the UK, and Israel. There are numbers for Bill Clinton's office in New York, a Washington number, and a number marked 'do not use',

There are also home and car phone numbers for senior members of Clinton's staff, including Doug Band, his former White House 'body man' who was incorrectly named as Bands , and a number marked as 'do not use'

Former Israeli prime minister Ehud Olmert has three separate telephone numbers. He is now serving a prison sentence for corruption.

Ex-British Prime Minister Tony Blair is recorded once, while his former cabinet minister Lord Peter Mandelson has ten numbers recorded, including one marked 'direct line' one marked 'home' and one marked 'country home'.

George Mitchell, the former American senator who was a key figure in the Northern Ireland peace process is also listed.

In total there are 97 pages of records, five of which appear to be notes made by lawyers or investigators before the records were entered into court records. 

The list was cited as an exhibit - and therefore entered into court records -  as lawyers for women who alleged they were abused by Epstein brought a damages claim against him.

They wanted to convince a judge to have Mr Clinton deposed. Their attempt did not succeed. 

In the case, the lawyers wrote: 'Epstein's personal phone directory from his computer contains e-mail addresses for Clinton along with 21 phone numbers for him, including those for his assistant (Doug Band), his schedulers, and what appear to be Clinton's personal numbers. This information certainly leads one to believe that Clinton might well be a source of relevant information and efforts to obtain discovery from him were reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. See exhibits "B", "F", "AA", "DD".'

Questions: Prince Andrew is photographed with Virginia Roberts in 2001, left,  and she is also pictured with her father, right, when she was seven. Roberts accused the prince of having sex with her

Claims: Virginia Roberts, pictured with her father Sky Roberts, claims she was kept as a sex slave by Jeffrey Epstein and forced to sleep with Prince Andrew, claims Buckingham Palace firmly deny 

The extent of Epstein's contacts with Prince Andrew are also suggested.

There are 16 separate phone numbers for the Prince, including a mobile phone number, one marked Palace ex-directory, one for Balmoral, the Queen's private retreat in Scotland where Epstein was invited by the Prince and one marked Sand. which appears to be Sandringham, the other royal retreat where he spent time.

Epstein also recorded 18 numbers for Sarah Ferguson, Prince Andrew's ex-wife who today stood by him and said he was 'a great man, the best in the world'.

The extent of Prince Andrew's friendship came with Epstein was made public when it was revealed his ex-wife was once given $22,880 (£15,000) from the pedophile billionaire  to pay off her debts.

The deal was struck in December 2010 after months of negotiations with the disgraced tycoon who insisted on helping with her financial troubles. 

'Holy grial' : Epstein kept the names of numbers of the great and the powerful, including ex-British Prime Minister Tony Blair (left) and Rolling Stones frontman Sir Mick Jagger (right)

Beauties: Model Angie Everhart (left) and actress Liz Hurley are also in Epstein's book

It came within days of the Duke of York flying out to visit Epstein in New York, fueling speculation he had smoothed the path for Sarah to take the money just 18 months after Epstein was released from jail for soliciting prostitution from under-age girls.

The Duchess of York later claimed her judgment had been 'clouded' by her desperation to get out of her £5million debt and vowed to repay the money.

Former friends: Prince Andrew is embroiled in fresh claims over his friendship with convicted child abuser Jeffrey Epstein

But when asked today whether she had paid back the cash, her spokesman said: 'No comment'. 

Other royal connections in the list include 'Charles Althorp', meaning Charles, Earl Spencer, Princess Diana's brother, and Rosa Monckton, the late princess's best friend. 

Eptein's contacts book is further referred to in court papers filed in court in Florida in September 2010.

Royal connection: Epstein kept the details of Sarah Ferguson (left) and Princess Diana's brother,Earl Spencer

 

Familar faces: Alec Baldwin (left) and Barbara Walters, New York elite, are also in Eptein's journal

It is stated that Alfredo Rodriguez, one of Epstein's household employees, took a journal that he referred to as the 'Holy Grail' from Epstein's computer 'that reflected many of the names of underage females Epstein abused across the country and the world, including locations such as Michigan, California, West Palm Beach, New York, New Mexico, and Paris, France.'

It claimed the journal identified 'among other Epstein acquaintances, females that Rodriguez believes were underage under the heading 'Massages'.' 

Exes: Epstein admitted he had the addresses and phone numbers of magnate Donald Trump and his ex-wife Ivana

Famous: Ivanka Trump (left) and Minnie Driver also included in Epstein's book

Other contacts include Barbara Walters, Alec Baldwin, Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson, Liz Hurley, designer Tom Ford, John Cleese, Minnie Driver, Dustin Hoffman, Bobby Kennedy Jr., Senator Edward Kennedy and Henry Kissinger and Maria Shriver.

Rupert Murdoch and models Janice Dickinson, Marie Helvin and Angie Everhart are also listed as well as Courtney Love - as are listings for five-star haunts such as Claridges Hotel in London, Beverley Hills Hotel and the Beverly Wiltshire as well The Plaza in New  York, Cipriani restaurant in Manhattan. 

Rodriguez was later charged in a criminal complaint with obstruction of justice in connection with trying to obtain $50,000 from civil attorneys pursuing civil sexual assault cases against Epstein as payment for producing the book to the attorneys.

Famous haunts: Jeffrey Epstein had the numbers and addresses of five star hotels such as The Plaza and The Beverly Hills in his journal

Do you want to call Barbara? News queen Barbara Walters is in Epstein's journal

Court papers state that Rodriguez argued he needed the money because the journal was his insurance property - as he feared that Epstein would make him 'disappear'.  Because of the importance of the information in the journal to the civil cases, Rodriguez called it 'The Holy Grail'. 

Rodriguez was later found guilty of obstruction of justice and served 18 months in prison.  

Epstein alleged in court papers that the journal contained the names of people who had 'no connection whatsoever' to his litigation, including Donald Trump. 

Court document: The federal court papers which disclose the existence the Epstein contacts list

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.

@highlight

Court document reveals pages and pages of telephone numbers, home addresses and emails held by Epstein - including The Queen's residences

@highlight

Address book includes string of other politicians - among them Kennedys, former Israeli PM Ehud Olmert and ex-new York mayor Michael Bloomberg

@highlight

Epstein's former employee Alfredo Rodriguez discovered book - and called it 'The Holy Grail'

@highlight

He kept it as security, fearing Epstein would make him 'disappear'   

@highlight

Epstein admitted he was a sex abuser and served 18 month sentence after plead deal to avoid full-scale criminal trial 

@highlight

Prince Andrew has been accused by victim of Epstein of having sex with her when she was underage and vehemently denies the allegation

@highlight

No suggestion of any wrongdoing by any of the names in the book

@highlight

By Sara Nathan for DailyMail.com and Martin Gould in Florida for DailyMail.com Country rock star Billy Ray Cyrus has been duped into retweeting a picture of paedophile Jimmy Savile by a prankster who claimed it was his grandad.

Twitter user 'Jake imo' sent the singer, best known for his number one single 'Achy Breaky Heart', a picture of Savile and wrote: 'Hi pal, it's my Grandad's birthday today and he's a huge fan. He'd love a RT!' 

The American singer, 53, who is father to global pop sensation and wild child, Miley Cyrus, sent the message on to his 1.75million followers.

Scroll down for video 

Billy Ray Cyrus was tricked in to retweeting a picture of paedophile Jimmy Savile to his millions of followers

The American singer, best known for his 'Achy Breaky Heart' song, was fooled into retweeting the image

The country singer performing in 2006 (left) and (right) with daughter Miley, who he starred with in the Disney Channel series Hannah Montana

But fans were quick to alert him of the mistake to tell him the image was one of Britain's most predatory sex offenders.

Savile abused at least 500 victims, with the youngest allegedly just two years old, the NSPCC has reported. The most common age group for his victims was 13 to 15.

He also targeted hospital patients, ranging from five-year-old children to 75-year-old pensioners, including men, women, boys and girls. He may have even committed sex acts on dead bodies in the mortuary at Leeds General Infirmary.  

Donald Trump, 68, was tricked into sharing this photo of serial killers Fred and Rose West after he was sent a message by a follower saying the tycoon had been a 'big inspiration' to his parents 

The team who run the Apprentice US star's Twitter feed shared the message, but quickly removed it after realising the mistake. The serial killers (right) murdered young women and girls between the 1960s and 1980s

Five hours after he shared the post, the tycoon said it was evidence you should not be 'nice and trusting'

The concept of 'Rickrolling' is basically sending a person a link to something that appears interesting or relevant. 

But it is actually just a disguise - when the person clicks on the link, it takes them to Rick Astley's uber-cheesey music video for his 1987 song 'Never Gonna Give You Up.'

The clip managed to find its way into pop culture, with celebrities and even politicians 'Rickrolling' people. 

Donald Trump was on the receiving end of a similar joke earlier this week, when he retweeted a picture of infamous serial murderers Fred and Rose West. 

The US business magnate was contacted on social media by Philip Bradbury, who sent him a message saying his late parents had always considered him a 'big inspiration'- but included an image of the convicted rapists and murderers instead.

The message was quickly shared on the multi-millionaire's feed by his media team to his 2.7m followers but was taken down 40 minutes later after they realised their embarrassing mistake.

But hours later the tycoon responded, saying he may sue the culprit. 

 

@highlight

Country singer was tricked into retweeting picture of the paedophile

@highlight

A Twitter user said it was his grandad and he was a 'huge fan' 

@highlight

Donald Trump was on the receiving end of a similar joke earlier this week

@highlight

The tycoon retweeted a picture of serial murderers Fred and Rose WestBy 
Lawrence Conway

PUBLISHED:

04:51 EST, 18 April 2012


| 

UPDATED:

05:21 EST, 18 April 2012

Fears: Donald Trump has voiced serious concerns about the impact of wind farms

Donald Trump, the American property tycoon, has described plans to create a new wind farm off the Scottish coast as 'financial suicide'.

He made the damning claims in a submission to a Scottish parliamentary committee looking into the proposals for 11 giant turbines off the Aberdeenshire coast.

Mr Trump said: 'Your pristine countryside and coastlines will forever be destroyed and Scotland will go broke.'

He added that building 'these industrial monstrosities' would 'completely end' tourism in the country.

Mr Trump has previously raised fears the wind farm would spoil the view from his new £750million golfing resort in Aberdeenshire.

Work has been suspended on the luxury development near Menie, north of Aberdeen, because of the offshore wind farm threat.

He said: 'If I had known about the current wind turbine proposals, I would never have built in Scotland.'

Mr Trump is next due to appear in person before MSPs next week to further push his case.

Despite his concern a second written submission said there should be a 'major shift' in energy policy towards offshore wind farms.

Ramblers Scotland said in a written submission to Holyrood's Energy Committee that there was too much focus on land-based wind farms.

The submission said: 'Government policy is focusing too much on supporting renewable electricity generation through one technology - large-scale, land-based wind turbine developments.

'We believe that the present situation is seriously threatening Scotland's reputation as a country with world-famous natural beauty.

Vision: How the wind farm off the Aberdeenshire coast could look

'This is likely to significantly diminish the numbers of people who choose to come to Scotland to enjoy our scenery and outdoor recreation opportunities.'

The debate follows  the Scottish Government giving the go-ahead on April 4 to a massive wind farm on the Shetland Islands.

The Viking Project, will have 103 giant turbines that could provide electricity for 175,000 homes – despite Shetland only having a population of 22,000.

The approval to create the third biggest wind farm in Scotland could also see the construction of a £500million cable to plug the islands into the National Grid for the first time.

However,
opponents warned of an 'unimaginable' impact on world-renowned 
landscape, with the £566million development set to dominate the moors 
and hills.

Huge: Artist impression of Viking Project wind farm from the sky and map showing its impact

The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) said rare species such as whimbrels and red throated divers could be at risk.

In February, more than 300 people marched through Lerwick to protest at the plans, while 2,500 residents signed a petition opposing the project.

But ministers gave the go-ahead, with the wind farm crucial to their election promise to generate 100 per cent of Scotland’s electricity needs through renewables by 2020.

The wind farm is the 50th renewable energy project approved by ministers since May 2007.

Towering: The Viking Project in the Shetland Islands will boast 103 giant wind turbines like these on Whitelee wind farm near Glasgow

@highlight

New offshore Scottish wind farm plan described as financial suicide by American tycoon

@highlight

£750million investment in new luxury development put on hold

@highlight

Controversial huge new windfarm on Shetland Islands already given the go-aheadThe expenses cheat congressman who decorated his office in the style of Downton Abbey has compared himself to Abraham Lincoln as he finally quit office.

Aaron Schock predicted in his farewell address on Thursday that like another Republican representative from Illinois who once held his seat, he would ultimately persevere. 

Schock said he would leave Capitol Hill with 'sadness and humility', but he knows that 'God has a plan for' everyone. 

He offered no apology to other members of Congress, his constituents or taxpayers for a litany of lavish claims.

Schock's downfall came after a Washington Post reporter discovered that he had redecorated his office in the style of acclaimed British television show Downton Abbey to the tune of $40,000, paid for by the taxpayer.

Details of more lavish spending, including taking a private jet to Chicago for an NFL match - then billing it as 'software'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO  

SHAMED: Congressman Aaron Schock was revealed to be a lavish spender and offered a valedictory speech today which contained no apology but compared him to Lincoln 

'GOOD LUCK TONIGHT': Schock tweeted this Instagram selfie with singer Ariana Grande, 21, before the American  Music Awards in November

IPHONE AT THE READY FOR HIS HOLINESS: Schock posted online a photo of him greeting Pope Francis in January on the 70th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau death camp

Another trip saw him take a group of 20, including several interns to New York for a Katy Perry concert at a cost of $10,000.

It was one of a series of celebrity events he attended and which were posted on his Instagram, featuring Arianna Grande and even Pope Francis. 

It was billed by Schock as a 'very legitimate trip' as it coincided with a visit to the city by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He then posted a picture of himself with the Indian leader.

The final blow was when Politico discovered that Schock had wrongly reported and been reimbursed for mileage on his personal vehicle - bought at taxpayers' expense.

But he acknowledged nothing of that in his speech, instead using it to say he was going through 'defeats' like Lincoln - the president nicknamed 'Honest Abe' throughout his political career for his utter personal integrity.

'I also know that every person faces adversity in life. Abraham Lincoln held this seat in Congress in one term. But few faced as many defeats in his personal, business and public life as he did,' Schock said.

FIRE YOURSELF: Schock bragged on Instagram in November after he met with real estate tycoon and possible presidential candidate Donald Trump at his Trump Tower office

'THE PRESIDENTIAL': Schock's congressional office budget covered more than $5,000 for this custom podium, styled after the one President Obama uses when he's on the road

'His continual perseverance in the face of these trials, never giving up, is something all of us Americans should be inspired by, especially when going through a valley in life.'

A rising star in the Republican Party, and one of the youngest members of Congress from either political party, the flashy congressman, first attempted to weather the storm - hiring top-level communications strategists to help him beat back the charges - before announcing he would quit hours after his mileage claims came to light.

In exiting Congress swiftly Schock avoided an ethics investigation from his peers.  

He could still be charged with criminal wrongdoing, however, and is now under investigation by federal law authorities for possible campaign finance violations, several news reports have indicated. 

Technically a Member of Congress until the end of the month, Schock said goodbye to his constituents and colleagues today as representatives prepared to head home for a two and a half week long recess built around the Easter holiday.

The nearest he came to an apology was to speak of 'humility'.

'I was never more excited than the day I walked into this chamber six years ago. I leave here with sadness and humility,' Schock said on the House floor.

'For those whom I've let down, I will work tirelessly to make it up to you.'

He could still be charged with criminal wrongdoing, however, and is now under investigation by federal law authorities for possible campaign finance violations, several news reports have indicated. 

Lincoln was first nicknamed Honest Abe when he was a store clerk in Springfield, Illinois, and the epithet stuck with him throughout his life. He used it as the 1859 presidential campaign slogan.

RED IS THE COLOR:The lavish design appointments earned Schock snickers

REP. HARDBODY: Schock made a splash in May 2011 with this Men's Health magazine cover

Schock was correct that they had represented the same seat but Lincoln's sole term was not because he had to resign or because the voters kicked him out - he in fact was standing by his pledge that he would serve only one term. 

A Whig at the time he served in the federal legislature, Lincoln went on to become the 16th President of the United States, a position he held while the country was immersed in its first, and only, civil war. 

His Emancipation Proclamation freed the slaves in Confederate, southern states fighting against the Union.

Sounding more optimistic than humiliated, Schock said today that he believes 'through life's struggles, we learn from our mistakes and we learn more about ourselves.'

'And I know that this is not the end of a story, but rather the beginning of a new chapter,' he added. 

'Thank you for the honor to serve,' he said in at the conclusion of his remarks, nothing that he looks forward to keeping in touch with both his friends in Congress and in his district.

He then left the House chamber - and an empty coffee cup, violating the legislature's rules - to applause.

According to the Hill, three of his Republican colleagues - Jason Smith of Missouri, Kristi Noem of South Dakota and Mark Sanford of South Carolina - were waiting in the wings for him as he gave his speech.

Sanford memorably rose from the ashes to take back his old congressional seat after leaving his state's governor's office in disgrace several years before. 

Following his first stint in Congress Sanford was elected and reelected as governor of South Carolina before he was caught cheating on his wife with an Argentinian mistress whom he later proposed to but never married.

Still beloved in South Carolina by some of his former constituents Sanford reclaimed his House seat via a special election in 2013 and achieved reelection last fall.

He ironically shares the same birthday with Schock. 

After Shock announced his resignation, his father said: 'Two years from now he’ll be successful, if he’s not in jail.'

@highlight

Aaron Schock quit  after his expenses claims came to light - and avoided an ethics probe

@highlight

In farewell speech to Congress Illinois Republican, 33, said he was like Honest Abe because he was experiencing adversity

@highlight

Taxpayers were billed for him taking group including interns to Katie Perry, a private jet trip to watch NFL and for his office being redecorated 

@highlight

Flamboyant politician had been rising star until it emerged he had channeled Downton Abbey for the $40,000 office makeover

@highlight

Federal authorities are looking into his claims while his father has said: 'Two years from now he’ll be successful, if he’s not in jail.'Sarah Palin has taken another jibe at President Obama - this time mocking his 'coffee cup' salute.

The commander-in-chief was criticized after White House officials posted a video of him stepping off of Marine One in New York City and saluting waiting Marines while still holding a white cup.

In response Palin, speaking at the Values Voter Summit in Washington D.C, said: 'To the commander -in-chief, we then salute him,' before sarcastically waving the Styrofoam cup over her head.

However she soon became the victim of embarrassment herself when she said the White House is located at '1400 Pennsylvania Avenue.' It is actually at 1600. 

Scroll down for video 

'To the commander-in-chief': Sarah Palin raises a cup sarcastically above her head during a speech at the Values Voter Summit in Washington D.C. - mocking President Obama's 'coffee cup' salute earlier this week

The commander-in-chief was criticized on Wednesday after the White House uploaded a picture of him on Instagram stepping off of Marine One in New York City for a UN summit still holding the cup in his left hand 

After realizing her mistake, she tried to turn it around by poking fun at herself on Twitter.

She wrote: 'Doggone it. That explains why my Christmas cards keeps (sic) getting returned.' 

Palin then visited wrong address she had mentioned in the slip up and sent a photo underneath the street sign to CNN reporter Jake Tapper. 

Saluting military personnel is something presidents are expected to do since they're at the top of the Pentagon's chain of command.

After realizing that she had got the address of the White House wrong, Palin tried to poke fun at herself 

Obama caused a stir because it is customary for a commander-in-chief to salute uniformed servicemen and women who salute him first as a sign of respect.

Many people took to Twitter criticizing his controversial method while Donald Trump said it was 'terrible'.  

President Ronald Reagan reportedly began the tradition and future presidents, both Republicans and Democrats, followed suit. 

Marine One lands at a heliport in New York City ahead of a UN Summit - moments later the President was captured giving a salute while holding a coffee cup to waiting Marines 

Obama's casual approach to the moment as he left his Marine One chopper at a helipad in New York City came at a time when he had just ordered U.S. fighter planes to fly perilous missions in the skies over Syria.

Twitter predictably erupted, with most commenters expressing outrage. 

Before the cup gesture and subsequent gaffe at the summit, Palin was asked questions about recent photos that were taken of her without her wedding ring.

She denied her and her husband Todd were on the verge of divorce and added: 'Well, I rarely wear a ring, especially up in Alaska, you know it's choppin' wood or you're butcherin' a moose or something.'

'Terrible': Donald Trump was one of the people to have criticized the President's actions on Twitter 

The 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee playfully confronted the issue on her own accord Friday afternoon, saying midway through her speech, 'I heard the other day that I'm in the middle of another divorce.' 

Palin didn't talk about the media coverage of the drunken brawl her family recently got into in Alaska during which her daughter Bristol allegedly punched a man in the face, her son Track broke four ribs and her husband Todd bloodied his nose.

Instead, she used the divorce chatter as a bridge into a lengthier rant on the mainsteam media and the perceived bias against conservatives. 

 

@highlight

Raised cup sarcastically to her head while at the Values Voter Summit

@highlight

Was referring to the President's salute in New York on Wednesday 

@highlight

Stepped off Marine One and saluted waiting Marines still holding a coffee cup

@highlight

Later on in the speech, Palin however said the White House is at 1400 Pennsylvania Avenue - it is actually at 1600  By 
James Nye, Thomas Durante and Reuters Reporter

PUBLISHED:

19:07 EST, 19 July 2012


| 

UPDATED:

19:16 EST, 19 July 2012

Morgan Freeman has been revealed as the latest Hollywood A-lister to drop $1million to President Obama's re-election effort, weeks after The Dark Knight Rises star caused a stir with remarks about the president's racial background.

The Oscar-winning actor's big donation to Priorities USA Action, the 'super' political action committee backing the president, was announced on Thursday and will be reported in the group's federal disclosures on Friday.

Freeman's donation came after controversial remarks about Obama's heritage the actor made to NPR earlier this month, where he said the U.S. is still yet to have its first black president.

Hey, big spender: Morgan Freeman has become the latest Hollywood A-lister to drop a cool million to a pro-Obama super PAC

All smiles: Obama raises his arms with Rep Debbie Wasserman-Schultz of Florida during a campaign rally in West Palm Beach, Florida

Freeman said during the July 5 interview: 'First thing that pops into my head regarding our president is that all of the people who are setting up this barrier...they just conveniently forget that Barack had a mama, and she was white - very white American, Kansas, middle of America.'

'There was no argument about who he is or what he is. America's first Black president hasn't arisen yet. 'He is not America's first Black president - he's America's first mixed-race president.'

The context of Freeman's comments 
were meant as a wider criticism of Donald Trump and his fellow birthers 
and were meant to attack Republicans and the presidents opponents.

Freeman told NPR: 'He is being purposely, purposely thwarted by the Republican Party who
started out at the beginning of his tenure saying, "We are going to do 
whatever is necessary to make sure that he's only going to serve one 
term."

Greeting the fans: Freeman waves to supporters as he leaves the Dorchester Hotel in London, where he is promoting The Dark Knight Rises

Barack Obama with his father, Barack Obama Sr, 
at Honolulu airport during their first and only meeting (left) while he 
sits with his mother Ann Dunham and half-sister Maya (right) in 
Indonesia

'That means they will not cooperate with him on anything. So to say he's ineffective is a misappropriation of the facts.'

For Obama, whose mother Ann Dunham, a
white woman from Kansas, married his father, the Kenyan native Barack 
Obama Sr., the question of his racial identity has been a lifelong 
struggle.

Before he was
president, Obama was a community activist in Chicago and always 
self-identified as African-American, and wears the mantle of America's 
first black president with pride.

Despite identifying himself as 
African American, Obama's struggles with his identity are well
known and his memoir Dreams From My Father followed his journey to discover his Kenyan roots 
and how he came to feel more of a black man than a white man.

Re-election hopeful: Obama speaks during a campaign event on Thursday at West Palm Beach Century Village in West Palm Beach, Florida

During the 2010 U.S. Census, the president did not check multiple boxes
on his form, or even elaborate on his racial heritage.

He ticked the box that said, 'Black, African Am., or Negro'.

Priorities USA has raised $20.4million this election cycle but lags far behind Restore Our Future, the Super PAC supporting Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney. Restore Our Future has so far reported raising $81.5million.

Super PACs are allowed to raise and spend unlimited funds. Operating outside of official efforts of campaigns and national parties, they have taken over much of the dirty work of negative ads.

Campaigner: Priorities USA has raised $20.4million this election cycle but lags far behind Restore Our Future, the Super PAC supporting Mitt Romney, pictured today at an event in Roxbury, Massachusetts

With four months to go before the 
November 6 general election, each side is on track to spend more than $1billion on campaigning and ads.

Last
month both Super PACs had their best month of fundraising yet. 
Priorities raised $6.1million and Restore pulled in $20million.

Overall, Obama's official campaign has raised more money than what Romney has raked in for his campaign.

But the Republican has made inroads with Wall Street and the business community, which have grown disenchanted with Obama's policies.

The fantastic Mr Fox: Freeman is pictured attending the world premiere of The Dark Knight Rises, in which he reprises his role as Bruce Wayne mentor Lucius Fox

Hollywood and the entertainment industry remain among the biggest groups supporting Obama.

'President Obama has done a remarkable job in historically difficult circumstances,' Freeman, 75, said in a statement.

The
statement went on: 'In return, he is the target of hundreds of millions
of dollars from right-wing sources. I am proud to lend my voice - and 
support - to those who defend him.'

While Obama is under fire for the flagging U.S. economy and stubbornly high joblessness, Priorities USA has spent much of its cash on ads skewering Romney for his role at private equity firm Bain Capital.

Morgan Freeman played an African American president in the 1998 blockbuster movie 'Deep Impact'

One of the first Hollywood celebrities to give to Priorities USA was comedian Bill Maher, whose $1 million contribution in February became controversial because of his politically charged jokes and comments.

Priorities has also received $2million from Hollywood producer and DreamWorks Animation CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg, and $100,000 each from film director Steven Spielberg and comedian Chelsea Handler.

Freeman is in the Batman movie The Dark Knight Rises, opening in theaters on Friday. It is his third appearance as Bruce Wayne's mentor Lucius Fox.

He also played the president of the United States in the comet disaster flick Deep Impact.

@highlight

Dark Knight rises star revealed as latest celeb to dish out $1million to Obama's re-election effort

@highlight

Pro-Obama super PAC Priorities USA still trails Republican-backed counterpart Restore Our Future in fundraising

@highlight

Freeman gave interview earlier this month saying U.S. is yet to have it's first black president because of Obama's 'white mama'

@highlight

With four months to go until November 6 election, both sides are on pace to spend $1billion in campaign cashIn a retweet on Thursday, a staffer to real estate magnate Donald Trump managed to capture the coarsest background conversations Americans are having about former secretary of state Hillary Clinton's personal baggage.

He may now be looking for a new job.

'If Hillary Clinton can't satisfy her husband,' a Texas-cowgirl college student tweeted, 'what makes her think she can satisfy America?'

When someone retweeted the quip two hours later and included Trump's Twitter handle in the message, one of the billionaire's staffers retweeted it for him – to his audience of 2.8 million people.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

THE INTERNET IS FOREVER: A social media staffer to Donald Trump retweeted an off-color jab at Hillary Clinton on Thursday before the boss deleted it

Trump, a multibillionaire who's considering a presidential run, will be in New Hampshire on Saturday – where the episode will likely come up

SATISFIED? Bill Clinton (left) was a famous lothario during his presidency, even carrying on one affair with a White House intern

Time elapsed: Less than three hours. 

His office confirmed on Friday that it was a Trump employee, not a fat-fingered CEO, who was responsible.

'Mr. Trump was not responsible for this tweet,' a spokesperson told Daily Mail Online.

'It was retweeted by one of ten staff members that periodically help execute on Mr. Trump’s various social media platforms.'

'As soon as Mr. Trump saw the tweet he deleted it,' the spokesperson added.

Hillary Clinton's once-strained relationship with her philandering husband isn't likely to be the stuff of TV ads in the 2016 presidential race, but the tweet suggests an undercurrent of crude jokes are being made at her expense.

Sawyer Burmeister, a Texas equestrian champion, originated the line about Hillary Clinton's alleged inability to 'satisfy' her randy husband Bill

Bill Clinton, the 42nd U.S. president, had an affair with a White House intern named Monica Lewinsky. 

He also famously caroused with other women who were not his wife, going back to his days as the governor of Arkansas.

A recent book about the staff who run the White House residence recounted a butler's story about hearing HIllary throw an object at him during the height of the Lewinsky saga. 

Taylor Burmeister, who wrote the tweet about Hillary failing to satisfy Bill, deleted it just before noon on Friday, along with a second message.

'Sry to those offended by me merely making a political joke,' she had tweeted in a follow-up.

'Get some rest, there are more important things in the world to be worried about.'

She assured Daily Mail Online in an email that no one fro, the Trump camp had asked her to delete the tweets.

'I deleted them by choice because of the negative backlash I was receiving,' she said.

'I didn't even know Donald Trump had retweeted it until about an hour ago.'

Burmeister confirmed to Daily Mail Online that she had deleted her tweets because of a nasty backlash

She originally offered an apology to people who were offended, but it apparently wasn't enough for some

Burmeister is no stranger to media attention. A world champion equestrian, she also had a bit part last year in an episode of the reboot of the 'Dallas' TV drama.

And she's a pre-law student studying criminal justice at Tarleton State University in Texas, according to her social media profiles.

Trump's retweet might have disappeared if a snarky Twitter user hadn't made a screen capture on his phone.

'Hey @RealDonaldTrump – In case you're looking for that tweet you deleted,' he wrote, 'I got it right here.'

Hillary Clinton's campaign did not respond to requests for comment.  

@highlight

Sawyer Burmeister, a horse-riding champion and sometimes actress, tweeted the barb on Thursday evening

@highlight

Second Twitter used forwarded it to Donald Trump, the real estate titan who's a possible Republican presidential candidate

@highlight

A Trump social media employee – one of TEN on his staff who help with Twitter and other platforms – retweeted the message 

@highlight

Trump deleted it, but the Internet is foreverBy 
Lydia Warren

PUBLISHED:

10:39 EST, 18 June 2012


| 

UPDATED:

16:04 EST, 18 June 2012

Donald Trump has fired a former billionaire divorcee from the vineyard she founded - a year after he snapped up her beloved property at a foreclosure auction.

Patricia Kluge became known as 'the wealthiest divorcee in history' after a $100 million settlement from media baron John Kluge in 1990 - but blew the fortune building a lavish estate and winery.

When the business struggled to get on its feet, Kluge was forced to declare bankruptcy in June 2011. Trump swooped in and shelled out $6.2 million for the 1,000-acre vineyard at an auction.

Kluge,  a longtime friend
of the Trumps, was given a role as a vice president of operations at the vineyard in Charlottesville, Virginia - but
has now been told she is no longer needed full time.

Kicked out: Donald Trump has fired bankrupt billionaire divorcee Patricia Kluge from the vineyard she founded. The pair are pictured at the vineyard's 2011 opening after Trump bought it at a foreclosure auction

The move comes even though the Trump Vineyard Estates - formerly known as the Kluge Estate Vineyard - has won awards for its wine while Kluge has worked on its team.

Trump, who famously yells the phrase 'You're fired!' at contestants on his show, The Apprentice, told Page Six: 'We gave her a transition contract for the first year, and that has ended.

'We are still working with her a little bit, and we still have a good relationship with Patricia. But it is never easy when you build something like that and you end up working for the people that are owning it.'

His son Eric, who runs the winery, said: 'Patricia's role was in operations, as we transitioned from a bank-owned property to a property that we owned.'

Family business: Trump's son Eric, left, now runs the winery, which Kluge sold after declaring bankruptcy

Not needed: Trump said Kluge, left, will no longer work for the winery full time but her husband Bill Moses, right, will continue to run the property as general manager

He added that she did 'a nice job' and that her current husband, Bill Moses, will continue to run the property as general manager.

Before the foreclosure, Trump paid $500,000 for 200 acres around the mansion. In an attempt to get his hands on the house, the deal included the front lawn and driveway.

But when Trump made a bid for the house, which had been up for sale for $100 million, for just $3.6 million at its foreclosure auction, the Bank of America refused and bought it back for $15.3 million.

He brought a lawsuit against the bank to
claim the property, which he wants to convert into a luxury hotel. The 
litigation is ongoing.

Up for grabs: Trump snapped up the land around Kluge's mansion and put in a bid for the lavish house

What's his: Trump said no one else will want the mansion as he own most of the land surrounding it

Site: Since taking over the winery in Virginia, the Trumps have turned it into an award-winning business

He has claimed no one else will want to buy the lavish 45-room neo-Georgian Albemarle House as he owns the front yard, most of the driveway and back yard.

'Maybe someone is stupid enough to buy the house,' Mr Trump told the Wall Street Journal last year. 'I wish them luck.'

Mrs Kluge, who is now married to her third husband, had owned the house since she 
acquired it as part of her bumper divorce from Metromedia billionaire John Kluge in 1990.

The house was designed after an 
18th-century English country manor with multilevel gardens, fountains, a
swimming pool and rustic guest cabin.

Old life: Kluge was a bellydancer, appeared in adult films and hosted extravagant parties at the mansion

Divorce: She became known as 'the wealthiest divorcee in history' after a $100 million settlement from her break up with media mogul John Kluge (pictured), once the richest man in the U.S.

It also has a spa, home theatre, 3,500-bottle wine cellar and 2,000-square-foot sitting room.

Mrs Kluge, who starred in adult film 'The 
Nine Acres of Nakedness', became known as the host of extravagant parties
attended by the rich and famous throughout the 1980s.

She hosted opulent 
events for royalty, corporate chieftains, celebrities and literary 
figures at the home, which Mrs Kluge once said defined her.

@highlight

Patricia Kluge received $100 million from 1990 divorce settlement - but declared bankruptcy in June 2011 after failed winery

@highlight

Trump paid $6.2 million for vineyard at foreclosure auction

@highlight

Gave Kluge a job at vineyard - but she has now been let go

@highlight

Trump also made bid for her mansion but when bank refused his cut-down price, he brought lawsuit against themFormer Florida Gov. Jeb Bush on Tuesday took his most definitive step yet toward running for president, announcing plans to 'actively explore' a campaign and form a new political operation allowing him to raise money for like-minded Republicans.

In a holiday message posted on Bush's Facebook page and Twitter account, the son and brother of past Republican presidents said he discussed the 'future of our nation' and a potential bid for the White House with members of his family over the Thanksgiving holiday.

'As a result of these conversations and thoughtful consideration of the kind of strong leadership I think America needs, I have decided to actively explore the possibility of running for president of the United States,' Bush wrote.

Scroll down for videos

In a holiday message posted on Bush's Facebook page and Twitter account, the son and brother of past Republican presidents said he discussed the 'future of our nation' and a potential bid for the White House with members of his family over the Thanksgiving holiday.

Bush spoke at commencement exercises for The University of South Carolina on Monday, telling new graduates they should avoid the impulse to pattern their lives after those of their parents

He added, 'In the coming months, I hope to visit with many of you and have a conversation about restoring the promise of America.'

Kristy Campbell, a spokeswoman for Bush, said he has not yet made a final decision on whether to seek the Republican Party's presidential nomination in 2016. 

She said that he will announce his decision next year 'after gauging support' for a run.

'This is a natural next step and represents a new phase of his consideration process,' Campbell said.

That phase will include an expansion of Bush's political operations. 

He said Tuesday he will start his own leadership political action committee in January, which will allow him to raise money and use it to support candidates in other races.

In his statement, Bush said the committee 'will help me facilitate conversations with citizens across America to discuss the most critical challenges facing our exceptional nation. 

The PAC's purpose will be to support leaders, ideas and policies that will expand opportunity and prosperity for all Americans.'

The Democratic National Committee fired back in mere minutes.  

'Isn’t this what he’s been doing all along?' asked DNC Communications Director Mo Elleithee. 'I don’t know what the difference is between "thinking about" running and "actively exploring" running, but I suspect it has a lot to do with keeping his name in the news.'

'However you see it, there’s no parsing this simple fact: Jeb Bush has fully embraced the failed economic agenda that benefits only a select few at the expense of the middle class. That’s not going to change no matter how many different ways he says he may run.'

Bush's announcement is also sure to reverberate throughout Republican politics and begin to help sort out a field that includes more than a dozen potential candidates, none of whom have formally announced plans to mount a campaign.

Should he ultimately decide to run, Bush can tap into his family's vast political network and his campaign would attract strong support from the same donor pool that other establishment-minded Republicans – New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie among them – need to fuel their own prospective campaigns.

GLORY DAYS: In 1999 (pictured), George H.W. Bush was in his post-presidency and his two sons George W. (left) and Jeb (right) were both governors

A Bush candidacy also has the potential to affect the plans of Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, who came up through Florida politics as a strong Bush supporter and is considering whether to seek re-election to the Senate or run for president in 2016. 

Richard Schwarm, a former Iowa state Republican Party chairman, said he expected Bush to run in the Iowa caucuses, as did his father and brother. 

Schwarm was among the earliest supporters of George W. Bush, and among those who went to Austin, Texas, to court the then-Texas governor in 1999.

'I think if you're going to be a national candidate you have to go where the ballots are and not be afraid to trust your campaign to Iowa voters, New Hampshire voters, Nevada voters and South Carolina voters,' said Schwarm, who considers Bush among his top considerations for president.

Tuesday's statement is the latest and most definitive signal that Bush plans to try and become the third member of his family to serve as president. 

In a TV interview this past weekend, he said he 'would be a good president,' disclosed that he was writing an e-book about his time as governor that would come out in the spring, and promised to release about 250,000 emails from his time in office.

During his two terms as Florida governor, Bush pushed for large tax cuts, overhauled Florida's education system and led the charge to eliminate race-based policies in college admissions and state spending.

FIGHTING WORDS: On Monday real estate tycoon Donald Trump lobbed a rhetorical hand grenade, saying: 'I'm a Republican but the last thing we need is another Bush. And his position on immigration is ridiculous'

Since leaving office, Bush has continued to advocate for more changes to the nation's schools, including the adoption of new education standards known as Common Core. 

Those standards have drawn the ire of conservatives who view them as a federal intrusion into local classrooms, but Bush has continued to call them critical to overhauling the country's education system, while seeking common ground with opponents by saying states should be allowed to develop their own education programs. 

Schwarm said while Bush holds some positions that don't sit well with some GOP activists, such as the Common Core standards, 'I think they'll realize his honesty and integrity on speaking out on his mind shows he has the courage of his convictions.'

'Iowans will give him a serious look,' Schwarm said. 'And that's all candidates can ask for. It's up to him to make the sale to Iowans.' 

Bush has drawn fire from right-wingers over his position on immigration, which closely mirrors that of President Barack Obama.

Real estate tycoon Donald Trump said Monday night in Washington that he considered that to be a deal-breaker.

'I'm a Republican but the last thing we need is another Bush,' he said. 

'And his position on immigration is ridiculous.'

'Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah!

'Like many of you, our family was blessed with the opportunity to gather together over the recent Thanksgiving holiday.

'Columba and I are so proud of the wonderful adults our children have become, and we loved spending time with our three precious grandchildren.

'We shared good food and watched a whole lotof (sic) football.

'We also talked about the future of our nation. As a result of these conversations and thoughtful consideration of the kind of strong leadership I think America needs, I have decided to actively explore the possibility of running for President of the United States.

'In January, I also plan to establish a Leadership PAC that will help me facilitate conversations with citizens across America to discuss the most critical challenges facing our exceptional nation. The PAC's purpose will be to support leaders, ideas and policies that will expand opportunity and prosperity for all Americans.

'In the coming months, I hope to visit with many of you and have a conversation about restoring the promise of America.

'Best wishes to you and your families for a happy holiday season. I'll be in touch soon.

'Onward,

'Jeb Bush'

@highlight

Former Florida governor is brother of former President George W. Bush and son of former President George H.W. Bush

@highlight

Announcement came Tuesday morning on Facebook and Twitter

@highlight

Run could be hampered by fears of a third Bush in a presidential 'dynasty'

@highlight

Conservatives object to his stance on immigration, which closely mirrors President Obama's

@highlight

Told college grads on Monday not to be bound to career choices based on what their parents chose to do Another victim falls for a Twitter hoax with New Zealand MP Peter Dunne unknowingly retweeting a photo of British serial killer Harold Shipman.

The troll struck just 24 hours after Donald Trump was tricked into retweeting a photo of British serial killers Fred and Rose West which enraged the tycoon who retorted suggesting that he may sue over the prank.

Mr Dunne replied just as disapprovingly after he had retweeted a post: 'My Dad, Hal was a huge supported buy passed away before he could vote for you. Please RT in his memory' alongside a photo of the notorious killer who murdered up to 250 people in England between the 1970s and 1990s.

The hoax that fooled New Zealand MP Peter Dunne to retweet the photo of serial killer Harold Shipman

It is pointed out to Mr Dunne that the picture is in fact of a deceased notorious serial killer

The United Future political party leader expresses that he is far from impressed by the prank

Mr Dunne was led to believe that Shipman was a supporter of his who died before being able to vote for him

Once a Twitter user pointed out that Shipman had killed 200 people, Mr Dunne accidentally replied to the wrong person, instead of the prankster, calling him a 'humourless cow', Buzzfeed reported.

It was then that who appeared to be the real troll stepped forward and tried to smooth over the online jape.

'You're a good man and a good sport; I've just go to keep politician's on their toes. All the best for your next term.' the cheeky culprit posted.

The embarrassing gaff included pretending that Shipman was a supporter of the MP - although the man hung himself in his cell at Wakefield Prison in West Yorkshire the day before his 58th birthday in January 2004 after being jailed for life for murdering up to 250 people but was only charged for 15 of the cases. 

The supposed prankster tries to make light of the Twitter hoax

While Mr Trump's hoax involved pretending that the West couple deemed the American business magnate as an inspiration.

The infamous pair tortured and raped numerous young women and girls and murdered at least 11 of them - including their own family members.

Mr Trump deleted the post about 40 minutes later then called the troll a 'jerk' and said he would consider suing the culprit for the prank

'I thought was being kind to somebody re their parents. I guess this teaches you to not to be nice or trusting. Sad.' he posted.

Donald Trump was tricked into retweeting the married serial killing couple Fred and Rose West

The wealthy businessman didn't take it lying down - suggesting he may sue the culprit

 

 

@highlight

New Zealand MP Peter Dunne was tricked into retweeting on Tuesday

@highlight

Pranskter asked him to retweet a photo of his father who was a supporter

@highlight

But the image was of  British serial killer Harold Shipman

@highlight

The United Future political party leader called him a 'humourless cow' 

@highlight

This comes as Donald trump was fooled in a similar way on Monday

@highlight

Tweet said it was his parents but was serial killers Fred and Rose WestBy
Mark Duell


  Updated:
  
  
      08:37 EST, 15 November 2011

Boxing greats including Muhammad Ali today paid their respects to former heavyweight champion Joe Frazier at a private funeral after he died last week following a battle with liver cancer.

Former heavyweight champion Larry Holmes and promoter Don King were among 4,000 people who attended the two-hour service at the Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Civil rights advocate Reverend Jesse Jackson gave stirring remarks, asking fans to stand and 'show your love' for Frazier, 67, which prompted Ali to rise and vigorously clap for his fallen rival.

Scroll down for video

Big name: Boxing great Muhammad Ali leaves the funeral of boxer Joe Frazier in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Hero: Former boxing champion Larry Holmes leaves after the service at the Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church

'Joe paid real dues and he is a guy 
who we can emulate because of his sense of family,' Reverend Jackson 
said. 'An ordinary Joe with extraordinary things.'

'Joe paid real dues and he is a guy who we can emulate because of his sense of family. An ordinary Joe with extraordinary things'

Reverend Jesse Jackson

Ali held hands for assistance in and 
out of the church. Heavyweight legend Mike Tyson, real estate mogul 
Donald Trump and actor Mickey Rourke all sent videotaped messages of 
condolences.

'He meant everything,' Holmes said, according to NBC Sports. 'He was a friend. He was a good man. Not only to me, to everybody.'

King said: 'Joe Frazier meant a lot to everyone because he was the embodiment of a heavyweight.' He added: 'He wanted to be able to fight for the people and in doing - he was fighting for his people.'

Interviews: Boxing promoter Don King speaks to the media after attending a memorial service for Frazier

Survived by family: Frazier family members arrive at the funeral at the Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church

Frazier, who died last Monday, 
was the first man to beat Ali - knocking him down and taking a decision 
in the so-called 'Fight of the Century' in 1971 at Madison Square Garden
 in New York City.

He would
 go on to lose two more fights to Ali, including the epic ‘Thrilla in 
Manila’ bout in 1975. Ali called it the ‘closest thing to dying that I 
know of’.

Frazier
 - who was elected to the Boxing Hall of Fame in 1990 - won the 
heavyweight title in 1970 by stopping Jimmy Ellis in the fifth round of 
their fight at Madison Square Garden.

He
 defended it successfully four times before George Foreman knocked him 
down six times in the first two rounds to take the title from him in 
1973. He would never be heavyweight champion again.

Welterweight
 world champion Floyd Mayweather is donating money to cover some of the 
costs of the services, as is George Foreman - who was not be able to 
make the funeral.

Attendee: Former middleweight champion Bernard Hopkins waves after attending the memorial service

Grief: Reverend Jesse Jackson reacts as he arrives at the funeral for boxer Joe Frazier in Philadelphia

Memorabilia: A vendor sells Frazier t-shirts at the funeral for the boxer near the Philadelphia church

Vehicle: The hearse of Frazier sits at the Enon Tabernacle Baptist Church during his funeral in Philadelphia

Fans have been lining up to pay their
 respects at the casket of late boxing great Joe Frazier at a public 
memorial viewing in the middle of an arena in Philadelphia.

'I will always remember Joe with 
respect and admiration'

Muhammad Ali

He was in a white, closed casket, as 
per his will, with his trademark black cowboy sitting atop and a white 
blanket that said, 'Heavyweight Champion of the World, Smokin' Joe 
Frazier '.

Frazier had been under home hospice 
care in his Philadelphia home after being diagnosed just weeks ago with 
the cancer that took his life.

'I will always remember Joe with 
respect and admiration,' Ali said in a statement about the death of his 
great rival. 'My sympathy goes out to his family and loved ones.'

Big name: Boxing great Muhammad Ali arrives at the funeral of boxer Joe Frazier in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Champion: Smokin' Joe Frazier, left, beat Muhammed Ali, right, in the 'Fight of the Century' in 1971

Remembered: Boxing legend Frazier died on Monday aged 67 after a brief fight with liver cancer

The 1970s rivalries of Frazier, Ali 
and George Foreman will always be remembered as a golden age of 
heavyweight boxing. Boxing promoter Don King called Frazier a giant 
among men.

'You can't mention Ali without mentioning Joe Frazier,' said former Associated Press boxing writer Ed Schuyler Jr. 'He beat Ali, don't forget that.'

'Smokin' Joe', as he became known, 
was a small yet ferocious fighter who smothered his opponents with 
punches, including a devastating left hook he used to end many of his 
fights early.

Ali once said: 'Joe Frazier, I'll 
tell the world right now, brings out the best in me. I'm gonna tell ya, 
that's one helluva man, and God bless him. He is the greatest fighter of
 all times, next to me.'

Frazier was divorced from his wife, Florence, but is survived by 11 children.

See video here

@highlight

Funeral for former heavyweight champion Joe Frazier at Philadelphia church

@highlight

Famously knocked down Ali in 'Fight of the Century' in 1971 in New York

@highlight

Died aged 67 after short battle with liver cancer following amazing careerAn American saga of redemption and recovery unfolded in dramatic style at the WGC-Cadillac Championship at Doral on Sunday.

Wearing red was JB Holmes, who has recovered so hearteningly from two bouts of gruelling brain surgery four years ago. Wearing blue was Dustin Johnson, the party boy who took a six-month leave of absence to mend his wild ways.

In the end it was the man hell-bent on his redemptive mission who came out on top as Johnson closed with a final round 69 to win by one from Holmes, who had begun the final round with a five shot lead.

Dustin Johnson (right) celebrates with his caddie Austin Johnson on the eighteenth hole at Doral 

Johnson proudly holds the WGC-Cadillac Championship trophy following his victory on Sunday 

'It means everything to win again,' said Johnson, who admitted his break was due to issues with alcohol and was competing in just his fifth event on his return. 'It has been a tough road but a lot of good has come out of it and I feel great now. This has to be the best win of my career.'

Johnson has long had a reputation as one of America's most gifted talents but was in danger of throwing it all away. Now he looks a reformed character. The latest world rankings out on Monday are likely to show him up to 6th and he' s quite capable of giving Rory McIlroy a run for his money at the top.

Masters champion Bubba Watson led briefly but paid for a bad stretch of three bogeys in four holes from the 11th and finished third. Johnson went the other way, playing his last 11 holes so artfully that he completed the sequence in a telling three under par.

It was hard not to feel sorry for Holmes. He had opened the tournament with a 62 that was so good it might well stand as the round of the year. But he blew his chances with a terrible start that saw his five shot lead dwindle to nothing before the first 90 minutes of play was completed.

Johnson celebrates his birdie on the 15th hole during the final round of action on Sunday 

As for McIlroy, his troubles with the plethora of water hazards continued right to the end, as he put not only his drive on the 18th into the water, but his third shot as well.

Before the start of his final round, Donald Trump, preposterous owner of this overrated venue, had presented McIlroy with the three iron he had tossed infamously into the water on Friday, after it was retrieved by a scuba diver.

McIlroy took it out of his bag once on Sunday - to play that third shot at the last. Thanks a lot, Donald, he must have been thinking.

McIlroy shaped up to throw the offending implement into the water once more, but this time kept hold of it. It was a moment of light relief at the end of a seriously trying week for the world number one.

Bubba Watson led briefly but paid for a bad stretch of three bogeys in four holes from the 11th 

At least he finished off with a more typical example of his artistry. Through the back of the green and staring down the barrel of an ugly triple bogey seven or still worse, McIlroy chipped the ball in for a six.

Even so, it rather undid the good work he displayed earlier, and meant he signed for a 71. He still finished in the top ten, though. All those missed putts and shots into the water, and still only a handful of players beat him.

'It was certainly an adventurous week and the game's just not quite there,' he admitted. 'I'm pretty disappointed with the way I played overall. But there were signs of improvement.'

He will look to build on those during a two day trip to Augusta National, beginning on Monday. He will play just one more tournament – the Arnold Palmer Invitational next week – before his historic tilt at a career grand slam at the Masters next month.

Rory McIlroy plays a shot on the second hold during a disappointing final day of action for the world No 1 

Round of the day came from England's Danny Willett, who shot 68 to finish tied 12th. This was a fine confidence boost for the 27-year-old Yorkshireman ahead of his first appearance at The Masters.

'I'm obviously very pleased,' he said. 'It's a tough course and the set-up is very difficult so to finish on level par for the week, I'd have bitten your hand off if you'd offered me that on Thursday. When you're playing with the top 50 you know they're not going to give you anything, but I'm feeling more comfortable all the time playing at this level.'

How far can he go? One area of concern remains a chronic back injury that has caused him to withdraw from plenty of tournaments over the years and one this year already. 'I'm taking painkillers and managing it,' he said. 'I'm going to stay over here through the Masters because flying back and forth is no good for it. There's no point worrying about it, I've just got to get on with it.'

He is doing that all right. 

 

@highlight

Dustin Johnson closed with a final round 69 to claim the title 

@highlight

Bubba Watson led briefly but paid for a bad stretch of three bogeys

@highlight

Rory McIlroy signed with a 71 but still finished in the top 10 

@highlight

England's Danny Willett shot 68 to finish tied 12th He may be laying low for six months.

But disgraced Nightly News anchor Brian Williams couldn't escape ridicule in one of the biggest comedy events in TV history.

On the red carpet for Saturday Night Live's 40th anniversary Jim Carrey alarmed Today newscaster Matt Lauer when he bluntly asked: 'Where are you hiding Brian Williams?' 

Tina Fey's eyes widened and Savannah Guthrie squealed during an awkward pause before Lauer exclaimed: 'Look at the time!'

And during the three-hour episode, Jerry Seinfeld took to the stage to say: 'I just found out one of the original cast members was Brian Williams. I don't know if that's true... doesn't sound true.' 

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO 

Jerry Seinfeld took to the stage to say: 'I just found out one of the original cast members was Brian Williams. I don't know if that's true...'

Awkward! Matt Lauer and Savannah Guthrie maintained smiles but Tina Fey turned awkwardly as Jim Carrey asked about Brian Williams

Awkward moment: Carrey demanded to know where the disgraced Nightly News host is

Williams, who has been suspended for six months without pay for allegedly fabricating anecdotes, is the only news anchor to have hosted the show.

But happily for Williams, the jokes at his expense were barely a fraction of the material on Sunday evening.

Musicians, actors, and politicians alike lined up on the red carpet to tell Lauer, Gutherie, Al Roker and Carson Daly how much they love the show.  

And the first joke of the night came when Kanye West spoofed himself at the end of the red carpet by interrupting the hosts as they wrapped up. 

Williams, who has been suspended for allegedly fabricating anecdotes, is the only news anchor to have hosted the show. He is pictured here with Amy Poehler and Seth Meyers during weekend update in 2007

On again: Here he played the character of Carl Bacon alongside Kristen Wiig as Cheryl Bryant in 2007

Presenters: Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake opened the show on Sunday, as they have done many times

'Oh Kanye!': The Today show hosts exclaimed as Kanye West interrupted their closing comments in an apparent spoof of himself

Other stars: Robert De Niro (left) hailed the show as iconic and Sarah Palin (right) said her appearance was the best part of her 2008 campaign

Heavyweight guest: Donald Trump, pictured with wife Melania, told Carson Daly he is 'honored' to be attending the historic event

Seth Meyers attributed the success of the show to creator Lorne Michaels' 'good taste'.

In a moving tribute, former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani remembered the show's first post-9/11 show as 'one of the most patriotic moments for this show, maybe for America.'

Sarah Palin spoke alongside Alec and Hilaria Baldwin to hail the show as a center for 'the most intelligent and comedic minds in America in one place.'

She appeared on the show in 2008, during her presidential campaign, beside a lookalike version of herself played by Tina Fey.

In a nod to that episode, she told Lauer and Guthrie: 'If this is indicative of the campaign it was the most fun moment of the campaign.'

Musical opening: Jimmy and Justin danced and sang to open the episode before screaming 'Live in New York it's Saturday night!'

Honoring hosts: After the opening credits rolled, Steve Martin came out for a monologue and was joined by Chris Rock and Miley Cyrus

Palin was stood with Alec Baldwin, with whom she shared an awkward cold open in 2008. 

Baldwin said: 'We get to relax and have fun regardless of people’s politics. And I often think, if only Lorne Michaels could produce the Congress, maybe we’d have more fun and we would get more done.'

Donald Trump told Daly he is 'honored' to be attending the historic event. 

Despite suggestions to the contrary, former cast member Chevy Chase, who first pioneered the Weekend Update news spoof segment, turned up. 

Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake opened the episode with a musical number and the words: 'Live in New York it's Saturday night!'

Steve Martin followed.

Opening the show, he said: 'Tonight is like an enormous high school reunion, a high school that is almost all white.

'Tonight we’re going to honor pay tribute to those greats who are no longer with us,' before naming John Belushi and Gilda Radner - as well as Jon Lovitz who was stood there shaking his head. 

 

@highlight

Matt Lauer, Savannah Guthrie, Carson Daly and Al Roker were interviewing the dozens of guests on SNL red carpet

@highlight

Jim Carrey referenced disgraced NBC host as he asked Lauer: 'where are you hiding Brian Williams?'

@highlight

Most other stars gushed about the 'iconic' show which has hit 40, Donald Trump feels 'honored' to be there

@highlight

Rudy Giuliani remembered  post-9/11 episode as 'the most patriotic moment for this show and possibly America'

@highlight

Sarah Palin said her appearance was 'best part of my campaign' in awkward interview alongside Alec Baldwin

@highlight

Kanye West spoofed himself by interrupting the hosts as they wrapped up the red carpet interviewsVivica A. Fox is a serial cougar! 

The 50-year-old star of films like Independence Day, Kill Bill and Soul Food has been quietly dating an actor almost 20-years her junior, and this isn't the first time she been with a much younger man.

Fox has found love with 31-year-old co-star Robert Ri'chard. 

The two met on the set of the buzzed-about stripper film 'Chocolate City,' which was shot in Los Angeles in September. In the film, Ri'chard plays Devin - a college student recruited to be a stripper - and Fox actually plays his mother.

Scroll down for video 

Cougar: Vivica A. Fox, the 50-year-old star of films like Independence Day, Kill Bill and Soul Food has been quietly dating an actor almost 20-years her junior

Pumped: Robert Ri'chard plays Devin - a college student recruited to be a stripper - and Fox actually plays his mother in Chocolate City

Workout: When Ri'chard, who previously starred in TV series like One On One and Tyler Perry's Meet The Browns, was not shooting movie scenes or doing push-ups to keep his abs tight, he was sneaking off to Fox's trailer

Vivica, here with Donald Trump, joins Ian Ziering, Brandi Glanville, Geraldo Rivera, Kate Gosselin and Kenya Moore on the new season of Celebrity Apprentice

'Oddly enough, despite the fact that she was playing his mother they had this magnetic chemistry,' a production insider tells MailOnline 'It was something about the way he looked at her that started people on the set chatting about something going on.'

When Ri'chard, who previously starred in TV series like One On One and Tyler Perry's Meet The Browns, was not shooting movie scenes or doing push-ups to keep his abs tight, he was sneaking off to Fox's trailer.

'He always wanted to be around her. He kept finding ways to creep off to her trailer and they were always having to send a production assistant to go get him to come back and shoot scenes,' the insider added.

Ri'chard wasn't shy around his co-stars when talking about Fox. When fellow actors like Tyson Beckford and Darrin Henson asked about their age difference, Ri'chard was clear: 'Age is nothing but a number,' he told them.

Since the film has wrapped production, the couple has continued to date. The pair regularly have dinner together in Los Angeles and have quiet nights watching movies.

In early 2003, Fox, then 37, started dating 24-year-old Washington Redskins player Darnerien McCants but the romance fizzled out after six months

Later in 2003, she dated rapper 50 Cent. She was 38 at the time and he was 27

'Vivica originally resisted dating someone as young as him. But he was so persistent that she gave in. She figured, if men his age are still interested in her, why shouldn't she date them,' said the insider.

Fox, who ended her four-year marriage to aspiring musician Christopher 'Sixx-Nine' Harvest in 2002, has previously dated younger men.

In early 2003, Fox, then 37, started dating 24-year-old Washington Redskins player Darnerien McCants. That romance fizzled out after six months.

Later that year, she dated rapper 50 Cent. She was 38 at the time and he was 27. Their relationship had a tumultuous ending.

In 2008, a 44-year-old Fox began dating 26-year-old Atlanta promoter named Omar 'Slimm' White. After three years of dating, the couple called off their 10-month engagement in 2011.

Vivica will join Ian Ziering, Brandi Glanville, Geraldo Rivera, Kate Gosselin and Kenya Moore on the new season of Celebrity Apprentice.

 

@highlight

Serial cougar Vivica A. Fox is quietly dating her Chocolate City co-star Robert Ri'chard, 31

@highlight

Ri'chard plays a college student recruited to be a stripper in the film and Fox plays his mother

@highlight

Fox will compete in the new season of Celebrity ApprenticeBy
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:
  
  
      11:40 EST, 10 March 2014
    
  

 | 
  UPDATED:
  
  
      12:20 EST, 10 March 2014

The millionaire owner of Oheka Castle on Long Island has spoken out for the first time since he was shot through the eye in an alleged botched assassination attempt last month.

Gary Melius, 69, released a video on Monday in which he thanked his family, medical team and God – but didn’t say anything about the unusual circumstances in which he was nearly killed two weeks ago.

‘I have a lot to say but I’m not going to say much,’ said Melius, who spoke slowly and wore a clear plastic lens over his left eye and a large bandage on the left side of his head.

Scroll down for video

Millionaire Melius spoke slowly and wore a clear plastic lens over his left eye and a large bandage on the side of his head

‘I got a break. I guess God looked out for me. He always looked out for me. I’m a very spiritual person. I always pray. And I think God for everything that I got,’ he said.

He thanked his family for taking caring for him and his luxury hotel and restaurant while he was in the hospital.

‘My family has been absolutely supportive in taking care of every minute for me. I love them all. My family has bathed me, nursed me, supported me. There is nothing they haven’t done for me. My wife is unbelievable,’ he said.

‘Oheka is alive and well. There hasn’t been a blip. Although I haven’t been around, everything seems perfect.’

Video: Watch Gary Melius talk about getting shot

Shot: Multi-millionaire Gary Melius was shot in front of Oheka Castle in New York's Long Island

He also praised the doctors and nurses who have cared for him while he was in hospital as well as the police investigating the case, adding that he was on the road to a complete recovery.

'I would say that I am a very fortunate man. I’m healing, getting better [and] looking forward to just starting over again,' he said.

Melius was released from the hospital last week. He has vowed to help cops hunt down the masked gunman – but said nothing during the video about suspects or a possible motive.

Moments before Melius was shot on Feb 25, two cars without license plates were seen pulling into the parking lot of his lavish estate. 

A black sedan was seen on surveillance footage appearing to act as a lookout while a gunman in a Jeep Cherokee fired shots at 69-year-old Melius.

The hotelier was shot through the eye while he sat in his Mercedes in an apparent assassination attempt around 12.30pm.

Police guard Oheka Castle after the owner Gary Melius was shot in the head on his property by a masked man on Monday

Surveillance cameras on the grounds 
revealed a shooter, wearing a mask and sweatshirt with the hood up, 
getting out of the SUV and firing through Melius' closed window before 
fleeing the scene, according to Newsday.

The
 kickback from firing appeared to cause the gun to jam as the shooter 
was reportedly seen on the security tape trying to fix the gun.

However the high-rolling lifestyle of 
the political mover and shaker might offer some clues - at one time, 
Melius had debts close to $6million. 

According to court records, Melius has
 a history of million-dollar debts - including owing $100,000 for 
unspecified reasons at Donald Trump's Taj Mahal Casino Hotel in Atlantic
 City, New Jersey in 1993.

The Key Bank, the Bank of New York 
and Dime Savings also sued Melius for close to $6million, according to 
filings. The IRS was also after the businessman - suing Melius for 
almost $200,000 in taxes in the early Nineties.  

Friends of  Melius have warned the masked gunman to turn himself in.

Police search the grounds of Oheka Castle for clues about the gunman after multimillionaire Gary Melius was shot in the head

'We
 are going to find the guy who did this,' best friend Darren Aquino told
 MailOnline the day after the shooting.

'This is not a sane man (the gunman). What kind of normal 
person would do that? The 
best thing he could do, this man, is turn himself in.'

Aquino described Melius, who he met at an event 10 years ago, as 'charitable', but admitted his wealth exposed him to threats.

'We don't know about motive for sure 
yet. Listen, people who are such a character like Gary are always a 
target. They always are,' he said.

'He's
 a good charitable man. He's the most giving guy I know. He's my best 
friend. I'm happy he got through this.'

Aquino said Melius is 'doing well' and surrounded by loved ones at North Shore Hospital in Manhattan.

Melius once owed $100,000 to Donald Trump's Taj Mahal Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey

Discovery: Gary Melius was found shot by his daughter Kelly Melius  (pictured) who rushed him to 
hospital herself

Meanwhile, authorities are examining 
surveillance footage from the Gilded Age estate on Long Island's Gold 
Coast that has hosted the wedding of disgraced Congressman Anthony 
Weiner and closing scenes of Orson Welles movie, Citizen Kane.

Kelly Melius drover her father to hospital after she found him with a gunshot wound.

Last year, Melius was part of a controversy that resulted in the ousting of then-Nassau County Police Commissioner Thomas Dale over the arrest of a witness in an election lawsuit.

The district attorney found that Dale had instructed officers to arrest a 29-year-old Roosevelt man, who had testified in an unrelated case that he had been paid to collect signatures for a third-party candidate.

Melius, a supporter of the third-party candidate, then contacted Dale seeking to have the young man investigated.

The young man was arrested on an outstanding warrant while riding a county bus on October 5.

An investigation by the Nassau County district attorney found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing but raised questions about the ethics of Dale's actions, leading to his resignation.

His close friend, former U.S. Senator Alfonse D'Amato was waiting to meet Melius for a meal at a local steakhouse when he was informed of his friends shooting.

'It was not a robbery,' Mr D'Amato said after leaving Melius' bedside according to Newsday.

'It was an attempt at assassination. He was at the Castle, outside. Nobody put a gun to him or said, 'We want your money.' They just shot him. The guy had a mask on.' 

Born in Queens, New York City, Melius began his career as a plumber, before getting himself into construction and property.

Becoming successful, Melius made a move for Oheka in the mid-1980s.

Melius
 lives on the sprawling estate along with his wife Pam and daughter 
Kelly and purchased the castle in 1984 for $1.5 million.

He sold it a few years later for $30 million but then regained ownership in 2003 - paying the same price

@highlight

Long Island hotelier Gary Melius has released a video in which he speaks for the first time about being shot two weeks ago

@highlight

The 69-year-old was shot in the head at point-blank range outside his $30m Oheka Castle

@highlight

Melius was shot by a masked gunman through the eye as he sat in his Mercedes in what police believe was a botched hit

@highlight

In the video Melius thanked his family but didn't give any clues regarding a motive for why he was shotBy 
Associated Press

PUBLISHED:

02:23 EST, 20 December 2012


| 

UPDATED:

03:57 EST, 28 December 2012

A 20-year-old Boston University sophomore and a self-described 'cellist-nerd' brought the Miss Universe crown back to the U.S. for the first time in more than a decade when she won the televised contest on Wednesday.

Olivia Culpo beat 88 other beauty queens to take the title from Leila Lopes of Angola during the two-hour competition at the Planet Hollywood casino on the Las Vegas Strip.

In a refreshing change, the Miss Universe title, which makes Olivia unequivocally one of the world's most beautiful women, appears to have been bestowed on a girl with a healthy streak of normality.

Crowning achievement: Miss USA, Olivia Culpo reacts after being named Miss Universe 2012 beside last year's winner Leila Lopes of Angola, right, during the Miss Universe Pageant at Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas

Swarmed: Miss Culpo is surrounded by contestants after being crowned Miss Universe 2012

Costume change: Miss Culpo went from sexy to elegant as she switched from the swimsuit portion of the night to the evening gown competition

Following the win, her brother told CBS that
she was 'really chubby and sort of weird when she was younger' while 
her father said Olivia was the 'nerdiest' of his five children.

Family pictures show Olivia goofing around with friends as she gets pushed along in a shopping cart and playing with her siblings Peter, Gus, Sophia and Aurora. 

Indeed, her family appears to be taken back by her decision to enter the world of pageants, something they knew nothing about. 

Olivia won Miss Rhode Island last year while wearing a $20 rental dress. She then became the first Miss USA winner from Rhode Island when she took the national crown in Las Vegas in June.

She grew up in Cranston as the middle child of five with two professional musicians for parents, Susan and Peter Culpo.

She
graduated from St Mary Academy Bay View in 2010 and is a member of the 
National Honor Society. Her love of Italian led her to spend two 
summers studying in Milan. 

The 20-year-old has played the cello alongside world-renowned classical musician Yo-Yo Ma and performed at Carnegie Hall.

Shop til you drop: Miss Universe Olivia Culpo larks around in a shopping cart

Genetically blessed: Olivia Culpo with her mother Susan at home

Happy holidays: Olivia (left), Aurora and their brother Peter on holiday in Italy when they were young

An American had not won the right to be called Miss Universe since Brook Lee won the title in 1997.

Culpo wore a tight navy blue mini-dress with a sequined bodice as she walked on stage for the competition's opening number.

Later in the night, she strutted in a purple and blue bikini, and donned a wintery red velvet gown with a plunging neckline. Culpo's coronation ends a long losing spell for the U.S. in the competition co-owned by Donald Trump and NBC.

Culpo was good enough during preliminary competitions to be chosen as one of 16 semifinalists who moved on to compete in the pageant's finale.

Her bid lasted through swimsuit, evening wear, and interview competitions that saw cuts after each round. She
won over the judges, even after tripping slightly during the evening 
gown competition. Telecasters pointed it out but also noted her poised 
recovery.

She told the Today show on Thursday that with the heels and gown she was wearing it was inevitable she tripped and was lucky not to 'fall flat on her face'.

She also said that in her new role as Miss Universe, she would be using her ability to travel internationally to raise awareness of HIV/Aids.

Hosts with the most: Andy Cohen and Giuliana Rancic co-hosted the event, but who can forget the larger-than-life personality who owns the competition - Donald Trump

You're hired! Donald Trump and Miss Universe 2012 Olivia Culpo

Crowned: Olivia Culpo elevated her status from Miss USA to Miss Universe last night in Sin City

Minutes before Miss Culpo was crowned on Wednesday night, she was asked whether she had she had ever done something she regretted.

'I'd like to start off by saying that every experience no matter what it is, good or bad, you'll learn from it.

'That's just life,' she said. 'But something I've done I've regretted is probably picking on my siblings growing up, because you appreciate them so much more as you grow older.'

Miss Philippines, Janine Tugonon, came in second, while Miss Venezuela, Irene Sofia Esser Quintero, placed third.

All the contestants spent the past two weeks in Sin City, where they posed in hardhats at a hotel groundbreaking, took a painting lesson, and played pranks on hotel guests by hiding in their rooms.

Walk this way: 20-year-old Culpo competes in the swimwear section of the competition

Sister act: Olivia (left) with her siblings Aurora and Sophia (right)

Beauty queen-in-the-making: Olivia Culpo on her 18th birthday

On her Miss Universe page, she said she hopes to pursue a career in film or television, and cites Audrey Hepburn as a role model because of her 'generosity, intelligence and grace'.

With Culpo's promotion, Miss Maryland Nana Meriwether becomes the new Miss USA.

The Miss Universe pageant was back in Las Vegas this year after being held in Sao Paulo in 2011. It aired live on NBC and was streamed to more than 100 countries.

Friends to the end: Miss Philippines, Janine Tugonon, left, holds hands with Miss USA Olivia Culpo before the decision was announced

On display: Miss Brazil, Gabriela Markus, left, and Miss Peru, Nicole Faveron, right, grace the stage

Keep smiling! Miss USA 2012, Olivia Culpo, Miss Australia 2012, Renae Ayris, and Miss Philippines 2012, Janine Tugonon, appear on stage after being named as top five finalists following the evening gown competition

Organizers had considered holding the 61st annual Miss Universe in the popular Dominican Republic tourist city of Punta Cana, but Miss Universe Organization President Paula Shugart said that country's financial crisis proved to be too much of an obstacle.

The panel of ten judges included singer Cee Lo Green, Iron Chef star Masaharu Morimoto and Pablo Sandoval of the San Francisco Giants.

Asked on the red carpet whether he found playing in the World Series or judging the beauty pageant to be more difficult, Sandoval said both were hard.

Sharply dressed women and men, including a large contingent from South America, held banners and cheered on their favorite contestants.

Glamour: Miss Hungary Agnes Konkoly, left, and Miss Australia, Renae Ayris, right, wear similar two-pieces during the swimsuit competition

Glamor: The finalists of Miss Universe line up on the stage at the competition on the Las Vegas strip

The pageant started as a local revue in Long Beach, California, organized by Catalina Swimwear.

It is not affiliated with the Miss America pageant and unlike that contest, does not include a talent section.

Contestants in the pageant cannot have been married or have children. They must be younger than 27 and older than 18 by February 1 of the competition year.

As Miss Universe, Culpo will receive an undisclosed salary, a wardrobe fit for a queen, a limitless supply of beauty products, and a luxury apartment in New York City.

@highlight

Olivia Culpo, a 20-year-old from Rhode Island, wins Miss Universe

@highlight

First American to win the crown at Donald Trump's event since 1997

@highlight

Miss Culpo's brother describes her as 'chubby and sort of weird' when she was youngerKentucky Sen. Rand Paul, a libertarian-leaning senator will officially announce his candidacy for president at a rally in Louisville, Kentucky on April 7, a senior adviser to the Republican politician told Daily Mail Online.

With Texas Sen. Ted Cruz in the race for the White House as of this morning, when he kicked off his own bid with a tweet, Paul plans to follow suit and launch his own campaign in just over two weeks.

Louisville, the adviser said, was selected over Paul's hometown, Bowling Green, the city from which he set in motion his quest to become a U.S. senator, for optimum venue space.  

Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul is scheduled to follow Ted Cruz's lead and announce his presidential bid at a campaign-style event on April 7 in Louisville, Kentucky

Even before Cruz, 44, kicked off his 2016 bid, Paul, 52, had his eye on April 7 as a launch date for his own national campaign. But the fellow Republican's formal announcement helped to solidify Paul's plans. 

Determined not to be the first major White House hopeful to wade into the shark-infested waters, Paul intended to wait until at least one other prominent Republican contender swam out to sea.

Already, South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson and wealthy businessman and reality TV star Donald Trump had publicly said they were forming presidential exploratory committees.

Such committees allow them to legally collect money for the purposes of travelling around the country to 'test the waters' for a bid and to conduct polling.

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush has made clear that he will pursue a presidential campaign but has not yet held the kind of large-scale event that typically accompanies the launch of a national campaign.

Cruz, voted into the Senate during the last presidential election in 2012, has selected a Christian college in Virginia as the backdrop for the public unveiling of his national enterprise. He'll make the announcement this morning at Liberty University even though he's yet to establish an exploratory committee.

Paul has not yet signed paperwork legalizing a committee either but could do so in the two weeks before he throws his name into the ring.

Up for reelection this year, the Republican lawmaker first had to settle an in-house dispute over whether he could pursue his current job and the one that he wants at the same time.

Earlier this month the Kentucky GOP gave him its blessing to do both. As a result, the state will have a one-time caucus, paid for by Paul, to determine its presidential nominee so that Paul can remain on a statewide ballot as a candidate for the U.S. Senate, as well.

If he nabs the Republican nomination for president, however, he'll have to take the state to court in order to protect his fail safe measure, as Kentucky law does not allow a politician to appear on the ballot twice for two separate positions. 

And Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes, the loser of last fall's Senate competition, vowed to force Paul to play by the rules. 

Paul, 52, peaks with diners at Pink Cadillac Diner on Saturday in Rochester, New Hampshire. Paul, who has made many trips to New Hampshire which holds the first primary in the nation. Even before Cruz kicked off his 2016 bid, Paul had his eye on April 7 as a launch date for his own national campaign. But the fellow Republican's formal announcement solidified his plans

Additional heavy hitters presumably joining the crowded field of Republican presidential candidates - former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie - have offered fewer hints about when they drop the curtain on their expected campaigns.

Currently they are running shadow campaigns, under the guise of their leadership PACs, and have all taken the preliminary steps to build apparatuses that can compete nationally.

Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and former Hewlett Packard executive Carly Fiorina could also enter the race as dark horse candidates. Both have hinted at possible runs, but neither has strongly signaled interest or adopted an aggressive campaign schedule compared to the likes of Cruz, Bush, Paul and others.

The candidates known to be all or mostly in have spent the better part of the year building their fan bases in early primary states, chiefly Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, and shoring up key Republican donors.

Democrats' top contender, Hillary Clinton, is also close to making an announcement, which could reportedly come early as next Wednesday.  

The political front was mostly quiet on Monday morning, however, as Cruz prepared to lay out his vision for the country in a convocation speech at Liberty, the largest Christian higher-education institution in America, save for a few tweets from his well-known detractors

Paul is pictured here exiting Beantowne Coffee House & Cafe March in Hampstead during his weekend trip to New Hampshire. The freshman senator has not yet signed paperwork legalizing a presidential exploratory committee but could do so in the two weeks before his campaign formally kicks off

The Democratic National Committee hit him several times over the social media network as the 'architect of the disastrous 2013 government shutdown' and forwarded reporters an article positing that Cruz, a Hispanic whose father fled communist Cuba, could actually 'make the relationship between Republicans and Latinos even tougher.'

The premise of the Fusion piece was that in making his debut as a national candidate at a university 'whose student body is at least half white,' Cruz, whose policies on issues like immigration are already considered 'divisive' by some, won't attract the kind of support from minority groups that one would expect given his family tree.

American Bridge, a progressive, political action committee, tweeted that that the GOP's 'race to the extreme starts today' with Cruz's personal announcement.

In a statement the group's president, Brad Woodhouse, also went after Cruz for his role in the 2013 Senate standoff that left the government in limbo for more than two weeks.

'Ted Cruz shut down the government in a tantrum, opposes marriage equality, denies climate change, and opposes a woman’s right to choose even in cases of rape or incest,' Woodhouse said.

'He’s everything voters hate about the modern Republican Party in one candidate' Woodhouse claimed, 'and the entire field is already signing on to his positions.'

@highlight

The announcement will take place in Louisville, Kentucky

@highlight

Paul, 52, had his eye on April 7 for some time, but fellow Republican Ted Cruz's formal entry into the race on Monday helped solidify Paul's plans

@highlight

Paul wanted to wait until at least one other prominent Republican contender launched a bid before making a grand show of his own

@highlight

Other probable candidates have launched presidential exploratory committees but Cruz is the first to make a campaign-style announcement Republican presidential hopeful Jeb Bush already has so much capaign cash in a super PAC that supports him has reportedly asked his biggest donors to limit themselves to giving $1 million each.

At least during the current fundraising quarter that ends March 31.

Insiders told The Washington Post that Bush is telling his super-wealthy supporters to put a cap for the moment on the high-dollar checks they write to his Right to Rise super PAC.

Super PACs can collect unlimited money from individuals and corporations, and spend it to support candidates, as long as there's no 'coordination' with their campaigns when the spending happens.

Bush reportedly met with a group of powerful financiers in New York in the final days before he decided to launch the PAC.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO 

SLOW DOWN: Jeb Bush's inner circle is reportedly telling high-dollar donors to set a $1 million cap on their donations during the first 2015 fundraising quarter

RETAIL CAMPAIGNING: Bush is trying to do his share of meet-and-greet events with ordinary people, like this group he addressed Monday in Las Vegas, so Americans don't think of him as another Mitt Romney

Bush advisers, the Post reported, are becoing concerned that the former Florida governor mgiht get a reputation as a tool of big business and the rich, and want instead to stress his independence and ties to far more small-dollar contributors.

The perception that 2012 Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney was a detached, wealthy candidate who identified most with America's '1 per cent' was among the factors leading to his defeat.

The PAC's first campaign finance report is due to the Federal Election Commission on April 15, and the story it tells may determine whether Bush's expected candidacy is plagued with similar accusations.

Bush is expected to turn in a report showing tens of millions of dollars collected. Almost no one else in the potential Republican field is thought to have the capacity to match his fundraising juggernaut.

New York real estate tycoon Donald Trump is one exception. His own wealth could fund a super PAC independently, but a Trump aide has told Daily Mail Online that he would embrace a retail campaigning strategy as well. 

'This campaign is about much more than money,” GOP fundraiser Howard Leach told the Post. 'They need substantial funds, but they don’t want the focus to be on money.'

Bush spokeswoman Kristy Campbell did not immediately respond to a request for comment, and declined to offer a statement to the Post.

The Post noted that some of the $1 million donors are likely to becoe repeat contributors once Bush's campaign is formally launched.

Big names Bush has visited on fundraising swings include Las Vegas casino legend Steve Wynn. He's in the middle of an aggressive national criss-cross designed to bulk up his campaign cofferd in what his aides have described as a 'shock and awe' campaign.

Its success could discourage others with less access to big money from running against him.

MONEY TROUBLE: FOrmer House Speaker Newt Gingrich, seen las tmonth at the COnservative Political Action Conference, was criticized in 2012 for taking $15 million for his super PAC from a casino magnate

SUPER PAC: Bush's political action committee can raise unlimited amounts of money from individuals and corporations 

Romney's super PAC raised $12 million in the first fundraising period after it was launched during the last election cycle. Bush's effort could dwarf that.

But casino money has gotten at least one Republican presidential candidate in trouble before.

In 2012 former House Speaker Newt Gingrich got a public black eye because of a $15 million cash infusion from gambling titan Sheldon Adelson. 

In that same year, the Post notes, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum benefited from large donations made by investor Foster Friess.

Santorum is expected to run again in 2016. 

The Bush circle's caution to their richest contacts 'shows they are disciplined and appreciate that the dominance of a few key people early on is not a productive thing for the campaign or for Jeb Bush,' Republcian fundraiser Rick Hohlt told the Post. 

@highlight

The Washington Post reports insiders say Bush doesn't want to give Americans the impression that he'll be beholden to the super-rich 

@highlight

He hasn't yet announced his candidacy but launched a super PAC that will support him if and when he runs for president

@highlight

Super PACs can collect unlimited money and spend it to support candidates as long as there's no 'coordination' with their campaignsBy
Joel Christie
and Michael Zennie

Before relocating his family from Texas to West Africa last year to work in a clinic trying to help contain the Ebola virus epidemic - where he inevitably caught the incurable and highly-deadly disease - Dr. Kent Brantly gave a sermon in his hometown explaining his decision.

The religious reasons for the missionary trip have been revealed as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said the father-of-two 'seems to be improving', 24 hours after landing in Georgia from Liberia on Saturday for treatment.

Brantly was transferred amid high security to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, which is fitted out with one of the most sophisticated containment facilities in America.

He was pictured being helped out of a special ambulance in a hazmat suit and walking into the hospital.

CDS chief Tom Frieden told Face the Nation on CBS on Sunday they hope Brantly will 'continue to improve', but could not say whether they think he will survive the virus.

Scroll down for video

Arrived: This image, taken from a CNN helicopter, appears to show Dr. Kent Brantly being helped out of an ambulance at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta on Saturday after arriving from Liberia in West Africa

Ebola: Seemingly uneasy on his feet, Dr Kent Brantly (left) is helped into Emory University Hospital in Atlanta by medical staff

Specially contained: Dr. Kent Brantly, one of two Americans who contracted the deadly Ebola virus while working in West Africa, landed in the U.S. Saturday and is en route to Emory University Hospital for treatment

Infection on-board: An ambulance carrying Dr. Kent Brantley, the American doctor with Ebola, departs Dobbins Air  Reserve Base on Saturday in Marietta Georgia

Frieden said he did not believe Brantley had inffected his wife and children, who were with him in Liberia.

'When patients are exposed to Ebola but not sick, they cannot infect others ... Our understanding is that they did not have contact with him when he was sick,' Frieden told CBS.

Before Brantly went to Liberia last October, he returned to his hometown of Indianapolis and gave a sermon at the Southeastern Church of Christ, which has been obtained by The Blaze.

'For two years we will live and work and serve among the people who, until the last 10 years of peace, had known nothing but the violence and devastation of war for the previous 20 years,' Brantly told the congregation.

'I've never been to Liberia.

'(I'm going) because God has a call on my life.'

'On difficult days, when I want to give up or when I wonder if I've made the right decision, retelling my story reminds me of how God has brought me to where I am.'

Brantly was able to meet with his wife, Amber, in protective conditions for 45 minutes after arriving in the country on Saturday, NBC reported.

She said he was in 'great spirits and extremely grateful' to be home according to a statement released on her behalf by the Christian charity Samaritan's Purse.

The doctor's sister, mother and father are also at the hospital and it was a 'relief to welcome him home', they said via the charity.

U.S. officials are confident that Brantly and a second patient - aid worker Nancy Writebol, who is expected to arrive in Atlanta on Tuesday- can be treated without putting the public in any danger.

The
 specialized unit at Emory University Hospital where the two will be contained was opened a dozen years 
ago to care for federal health workers exposed to some of the world's 
most dangerous germs.

Arrived: Dr. Kent Brantly, who caught Ebola at a treatment clinic in Foya, Liberia, has been evacuated to the United States for treatment

Landed: An airplane carrying American doctor Kent Brantly who has the Ebola virus, arrives at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Marietta, Georgia, on August 2, 2014

Fight of their lives: Dr. Kent Brantly (left) 
and hygienist aid worker Nancy Writebol are both in grave conditions as 
they battle incurable Ebola

This is a glimpse inside the containment ward at Emory University Hospital where the two American Ebola patients will be cared for after they arrive in the U.S.

Now
 it's being pressed into service for the two seriously ill Americans who
 worked at a hospital in Liberia, one of the three West Africa countries
 hit by the largest Ebola outbreak in history.

CDC
 Director Dr Tom Frieden acknowledged that many Americans are terrified 
about bringing Dr Brantly and hygienist Writebol back to the U.S. to 
continue the treatment of their incurable Ebola infections but insisted 
there was no risk.

'But
 I really hope that people's fear won't outweigh their compassion. We've
 got a real challenge in Africa and what we need to focus on is stopping
 the outbreak there. We will be able to stop it, but its going to take 
supporting people,' he told CNN.

'And that means if people who are on that supporting mission get sick, we care for them.'

Dr Frieden added: 'Ebola is a huge risk in Africa. It's not going to be a huge risk in the U.S.'

According to WXIA,
 Emory's isolation unit is on the ground floor and has three beds with 
the highest standards in negative pressure air handling, HEPA filtration
 and exhaust.

'When
 this unit was being built, we hoped we'd never have to use the space to
 treat a serious communicable disease,' said Emory epidemiologist Bruce 
Ribner.

Special jet: The plane carrying the two Ebola sufferers is designed to transport very ill patients long distances under constant medical care

Containment: Inside the jet, the patients will be quarantined in these isolation tents called aeromedical biological containment systems

The custom-designed jet left Atlanta for Liberia on Thursday

Efforts
 have been made to help the two patients with the means available in 
Liberia - and just hours before the flight to Atlanta was revealed, 
father-of-two Brantly gave up the single vial of an experimental 
treatment sent over from the U.S. in order that Writebol - a grandmother
 and longtime Christian missionary - could receive it instead.

Brantly received a transfusion of the blood of a 14-year-old Ebola 
survivor who he personally helped to treat. Giving blood transfusions from 
survivors to still suffering Ebola patients is an established, though 
not nearly proven, treatment for the largely untreatable disease.

However, on Thursday charity SIM said in a statement that Mrs Writebol's condition had worsened, despite the serum.

Her husband, David, is close by but can only visit his wife through a window or dressed in a haz-mat suit.

'We
 continue to pray for Nancy's full and complete recovery,' said Bruce 
Johnson, president of SIM USA. 'Even though her condition has worsened, 
we know she is receiving the best possible medical care, and we are 
thankful that she has access to this experimental drug.

'We believe in the power of prayer and 
ask people around the world not only to pray for Nancy and Kent, but 
also for everyone affected by this terrible virus.'

The moment CNN reported a plane was leaving the United States to pick up the American volunteers in Liberia suffering from Ebola, Twitter lit up with Americans fuming over the decision.

Many were unable to understand why the patients couldn't simply be treated in Liberia.

'Is it necessary that this person come to the U.S.?  Can't this be done other there?  Ego trip?' tweeted @1ronweed.

At least one of the dissenting tweets come from none other than Donald Trump.

'Ebola patient will be brought to the U.S. in a few days - now I know for sure that our  leaders are incompetent. KEEP THEM OUT OF HERE!' @realDonaldTrump wrote.

Donald Trump is none-too-happy with the decision to bring an Ebola patient to the US

Still others were simply thankful the patient or patients were being taken to Georgia.

'Thank god I don't live in Atlanta,' tweeted @TheMadPatriot.

So should we be worried?

Not if the CDC's best-there-is containment systems and procedures work as they are supposed to.

The patient or patients will be housed in an area of Emory's hospital that is physically separate from other patient areas, according to CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta.

And inside the air will be filtered and none no staff will have any physical contact whatsoever with an infected patient outside of specialized hazmat-like suits.

However, the move also comes soon after the CDC's recent string of reported mishandlings of other dangerous pathogens--namely athrax and influenza--made headlines--made headlines and even forced the resignation of the head of the government lab that potentially exposed workers to live anthrax.

Dr Brantly was in West Africa with the missionary group responding to the Ebola outbreak when he was diagnosed last week.

His wife and children returned to the United States before Dr Brantly showed any signs of illness.

Samaritan's Purse has evacuated all of its non-essential personnel for the Ebola outbreak.

Meanwhile 
on Thursday, U.S. health officials warned Americans not to travel to the
 three West African countries hit by an outbreak of Ebola.

The
 travel advisory applies to nonessential travel to Guinea, Liberia and 
Sierra Leone, where the deadly disease has killed more than 700 people 
this year.

Father: Dr Brantly, pictured with his family, ensured Writebol received the experimental drug instead of him after a small amount arrived in Liberia, the Samaritan's Purse charity said on Wednesday

Waiting for an answer: Nancy Writebol, pictured with her husband David, is entering a critical stage of her Ebola treatment and will either show signs of recovery or inevitable death

Last week Dr Brantly, 33, was identified as the first American to be diagnosed with Ebola, which kills up to 90 per cent of those it infects.

Mrs Writebol, 60, an educator turned missionary from Charlotte, North Carolina, was the second.

The first stage of the illness is characterised by fever, headaches, nausea, vomiting, a rash and diarrhea.

The second however is haemorrhagic fever in which patients endure difficulty breathing and swallowing and agonising bleeding inside their body.

Blood pours out of their ears and nose and turns their eyes from white to red. They die an agonising death. Generally patients who enter the second stage do not survive.

Mr Johnson said that SIM USA had not yet identified how Dr Brantly and Mrs Writebol had become infected but said that they take ‘extreme safety measures’ and follow guidelines from the Centre For Disease Control.

He said: 'Our hearts just break for them.'

@highlight

Father-of-two Dr. Kent Brantly landed in Marietta, Georgia, just outside Atlanta, on Saturday morning, from Liberia in West Africa

@highlight

Listed as stable, the Texas man's condition has improved in the last 24  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Sunday

@highlight

Brantly gave a sermon before he left for Liberia last October explaining the religious reasons for the trip

@highlight

A second patient, aid worker Nancy Writebol, will arrive Tuesday

@highlight

Both victims will be treated in a super-high containment facility at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital near the CDC

@highlight

Some people are outraged over the decision to bring Ebola onto American soil for the first timeUpset: Stewart Rahr took issue with how he was treated at Nobu57 in Manhattan

One of the world's richest men has been banned from top New York restaurant Nobu after the staff said that he allegedly threatened to kill the manager when he didn't get his favorite table.

Stewart Rahr, a pharmaceutical billionaire who boasts of his celebrity friends and his lavish lifestyle, reportedly sent a email of complaint to Nobu owner Drew Nieporent.

Rahr admits having a disagreement with a female manager but he denies threatening to kill her after she ignored his phone call, according to The New York Post.

The paper reports that after the face-to-face confrontation with the manager, he sent a caps-locked tirade to Nieporent, he cc'ed a group of his famous friends including Mark Wahlberg, Leonardo DiCaprio, Alicia Keys, Andre Agassi and Joaquin Phoenix.

Three additional recipients have some political pull, including police commissioner Ray Kelly, Rahr's 'buddy' Donald Trump, and actor Robert DeNiro who co-owns the restaurant chain with Nieporent.

The dispute stems from an incident where the 66-year-old allegedly got into a verbal altercation with the restaurant's manager Sharon Hofstetter when Rahr tried to get his favorite table on the night of his wife's surprise birthday party.

He reportedly walked up to an occupied table and asked the group who was dining there to move so that he could have 'his' table.

A bartender told the paper that the group refused and he offered to pay their bill if they would agree.

Powerful pals: Rahr prides himself on his celebrity connections, seen here with Prince Harry at a polo match

Close: Rahr (right) sent an email complaint to the owner of Nobu and cc'ed a number of celebrities including Mark Wahlberg (second right). Though in this picture, Cindy Crawford, her husband Rande Gerber, and Jeremy Piven didn't get the email

Rahr, who calls himself 'Stewie Rah Rah- the No. 1 King of Fun', then left an irate message for Hofstetter, who was not at the restaurant at the time of the interaction.

She did not call him back immediately so he went to the restaurant on 57th Street to have it out with her in person. 

'He called me the c-word and said he would kill me,' Hofstetter told The Post.

Rahr tells a different version of the story. He told The Post that Hofstetter was supposed to meet him at his office to plan the party in question, so he went to the restaurant to give her a piece of his mind.

'I told her "I can't stand you. You're despicable." Did I curse at her or threaten to kill her? No true- please. I would never say that,' Rahr told the paper.

Leading ladies: Rahr has been pictured with Victoria Beckham (left) and model Petra Nemcova (right)

Feeling like his message may not be clear, Rahr decided to send the email to Nieporent and copy his A-list pals.

'I GUESS THAT U R MUCH TOO BUSY TO 
CALL BACK AN UPSET CUSTOMER. I HAD TOLD U THAT I HAD A MAJOR PROBLEM 
& A VERY UNCOMFORTABLE EXPERIENCE CONCERNING A SURPRISE PARTY FOR A 
VERY VERY CLOSE FRIEND THIS PAST WEDS,' he wrote in the email.

Rahr,
 who owned drug manufacturer Kinray until he sold it for $1.3billion in 
2010, went on to talk about his wealth in the email, using it as an 
unexpected way to rub his business savvy in Nieporent's face.

'I
 HAD ONLY 3 employees & revenues of only $40,000... WHEN I RECENTLY 
SOLD MY company last year I EMPLOYED almost 2,000 employees n REVENUES 
of $5,000,000,000 (thats what 5 BILLION (W AN 'B' AS IN BOY NOT AN 'M' 
AS IN MAN...' he wrote in the angry- and typo-laden- email.

Similar skin colors: Rahr, seen here with close friend Donald Trump, also sent the real estate mogul the email complaining about the service he received at Nobu

Banned: Now Rahr is no longer welcome at any of Nobu's 25 locations around the world

Now, Rahr is no longer welcome at any of the 25 international Nobu locations. Given his propensity to go heavy on the self tanner (having had a skin cancer scare several years ago) and trademark uniform of purple t-shirts and yellow Ray Ban sunglasses, it would be easy to spot him if he tried to sneak in.

This is far from the first time that Rahr has used his connections to make a point, as he was described in a New York Observer profile of showing off his hundreds of posed photos with various celebrities.

And he has no problem expressing his distaste for others: he openly bad-mouthed Tiger Woods, calling him 'the most selfish guy I know out of the 500 celebrities on this wall', and had a PR back-and-forth over a slight to comedian George Lopez.

@highlight

Stewart Rahr was upset because another group was seated at 'his' table

@highlight

Sent an angry email to the owner of the restaurant and cc'ed celebrities

@highlight

He admits to the argument but denies having threatened the managerGazing into each other’s eyes, Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown sway on the dancefloor as they celebrate their wedding in a haunting video that only serves to highlight just how tragic their union was to become.

It is footage that will be both difficult and inspiring for daughter Bobbi Kristina to watch as she admits she is still struggling to 
recover from her mother's death in a revealing interview with feted 
documentary maker Daphne Barak, who unearthed the video.

As Whitney the bride regally embraces a line of children at the ceremony, all dressed in white and playing classical music with small violins, Bobbi, now 20 and married only weeks ago, tells Daphne: ‘She WAS royal. People don’t know that about her…I called her My Royal Woman’.

Scroll down for video

Hand in hand: Whitney Houston and new husband Bobby brown show off their wedding rings after tying the knot on July 18, 1992

First dance: Bobby Brown and Whitney Houston cling on to each other on the dance floor at their wedding at Whitney's New Jersey estate

Regal: Whitney Houston bends down to kiss all the children who played at her wedding

[caption

Newlyweds: Whitney Houston and Bobbi Brown beam after tying to knot on July 18, 1992. The marriage was to end in 2006 and Whitney was to die after years of drug abuse on February 11, 2012

Indeed, as they croon to each other at
 the lavish wedding on July 18, 1992, Whitney and Bobby - who were very 
much considered music's odd couple at the time - look every inch 
royalty, with Bobby even teasingly wearing one Whitney’s earrings.

The
 wedding, held at Whitney’s $10million home in Mendham, New Jersey, was 
an excessive affair, attended by a guest list of 800 – a figure Brown 
was later to sigh was ‘too much'.

Both
 the bride and groom wore white, with Whitney’s dress created out of 
French lace by Mark Bouwer and costing $40,000, and the wedding party 
dressed  in shades of purple, the star’s favourite colour.

It
 is all a far cry from the circumstances of how Whitney’s life would end
 on February 11, 2012, after she was found dead in a bathtub at The 
Beverly Hilton hotel in Los Angeles, aged just 48.

The couple had divorced in 2006 following a fiery and very public marriage.

Since
 the death of Whitney, one of the world’s biggest singing stars in her 
heyday before she spiralled into a desperate addiction to crack cocaine,
 Bobbi now has only her memories of her beloved mother to cling on to.

Now
 living in Atlanta with her husband and De facto step-brother Nick 
Gordon, Bobbi makes it clear that both she and Nick considered Whitney their mom, insisting: ‘Our mom was royal.'

While Nick, 24, whom Whitney moved into her home about 10 years before her death after learning his mother could no longer care for him, tells Daphne: ‘She was my
 mom too!’

Confirming their marriage earlier this
 month, Bobbi - who has said Whitney would have wanted their union - 
adds: ‘Our mom taught us to be royal. We are different.

‘There
 is royalty in our veins. She taught us how to move, how to talk. We 
want you to know, that where we come front, WE are royals, because SHE 
was royal.’

Lavish: Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown invited 800 guests to their wedding at Whitney's New Jersey estate

Tragic: Whitney Houston and daughter Bobbi Kristina Brown attend Clive Davis' pre-Grammy Awards party at the Beverly Hilton hotel on February 12, 2011. Almost exactly a year to the day later, Whitney would be found dead at the same hotel

Married: Bobbi Kristina Brown and her de-facto step-brother Nick Gordon appear at the premiere of reality show The Houstons: On Our Own in New York in October 2012. They wed earlier this month

Happy: Bobbi Kristina Brown now sports a huge rock custom designed by Neil Lane after marrying de-facto stepbrother Nick Brown earlier this month. Nick moved in with Bobbi and mom Whitney Houston when he was nine and Bobbi was six

'In love': Bobbi Kristina Brown and husband Nick Gordon step out in Georgia on January 10. They said their marriage is what Whitney would have wanted

Left with this 
memento of one of the happiest days of her parents’ lives, Bobbi 
reveals: ‘I was there…she was pregnant with me, but she didn’t know. 
They found out about me during their honeymoon.’

Speaking about her parents' wedding, Bobbi adds: ‘I love her dress, and the headpiece, the 
matching earrings…Mom is beautiful. You see, you picked it up, how royal
 she was.’

New film: Documentary maker Daphne Barak chats to Bobbi Kristina Brown at home in Georgia

‘She used to call
 me ‘Stina,’ Bobbi tells Daphne as it becomes clear that time is not helping the grief-stricken daughter: ‘I miss her like hell. She 
taught me everything. Now I’m working on my career, but also on myself.

‘I’m working on learning how to be a woman without the woman who taught me to be a woman.’

Referring
 to the star she also called ‘Lioness’ because of her Leo birth sign, 
Bobbi says the upcoming anniversary of her mother’s death makes her 
realise just how much people did not really know Whitney.

‘People did not know her’, she tells Daphne: ‘They write things. But for me, she wasn’t Whitney Houston.'

Dedicated
 to embarking on a music career like her mother, she says: ‘I am the 
only one who can sing her songs like she did. She always said that if 
they would make a film about her, only I could play her.

‘She
 taught me how to sing Acapella. She taught me that singing Acapella 
would make my voice stronger and stronger. She taught me Gospel, she 
taught me for 18 years how to be royal, how to be her daughter, a 
woman…I am very proud of her.’

On the video, images of the reception filled with candles and 
lavender and white orchid arrangements alongside an 18-layer cake flash up 
on screen, as A-list guests ranging from Donald Trump 
to Whitney’s aunt Dionne Warwick and even P Diddy, can be seen sipping Cristal and 
Dom Perignon champagne.

Royalty: Bobbi Kristina Brown says her mom Whitney brought her and Nick up to believe they were royal - adding: 'She always said that if they would make a film about her, only I could play her'

Heartbroken: Bobbi Kristina Brown says: 'I called my mom my Royal Woman'. She's seen here with her parents in New York in 1994

Stooping to thank the line of children musicians, Whitney tells them: ‘Thank-you, thank-you for the treat…come, give me a kiss.'

As 
Daphne asks what Bobbi would want the world to know about Whitney, Bobbi pauses: ‘That she had a heart, you could not 
fall in love with her. Even if she cast you off - she so lovable.’

Bobbi is now awaiting the first $1.2million from her the $12million estate her mother left her to claim by the time she’s 30.

Sadly, it is patently clear just how much Whitney and Bobby were thrilled to be expecting baby Bobbi.

The
 couple had met at the Soul Train Music Awards in 1989 and in an interview 
on their marriage in Vanity Fair in December 1992, Whitney, then three-months pregnant, prophesised: ‘I think it’s a girl…’

Happy family? Whitney Houston, Bobby Brown and Bobbi Kristina Brown

Tragic: The scene outside the Beverly Hilton following Whitney Houston's death on February 11, 2012

The
 couple kissed and Brown patted Whitney’s stomach, adding: ‘I’m gonna 
spoil that baby girl….I want presents. Lots of presents. Shoes and 
dresses and diamonds and all that for her.’

‘You want everything, baby’, Whitney replied….’We’ll see, we’ll see.’

More of the 25-minute wedding video will be aired globally next month in a Daphne Barak special.

Filmmaker Daphne, who was also on hand to watch some 
of Amy Winehouse’s tragic last days in St Lucia, tells MailOnline: ‘When
 I saw Whitney in the video she looked like Princess Diana, so regal. In
 her imagination, she was royal and Bobby was her prince.

For more information go to http://www.daphnebarak.com/

@highlight

New wedding video shows tragic singer Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown sharing an intimate dance at lavish 1992 ceremony

@highlight

Their daughter Bobbi Kristina tells filmmaker Daphne Barak she is still grieving ahead of the second anniversary of Whitney's death

@highlight

Whitney was pregnant at wedding - but didn't find out until honeymoon, daughter reveals

@highlight

Bobbi, 20, married De facto step-brother Nick Gordon, 24, earlier this month - and Nick calls Whitney his 'mom'

@highlight

Bobbi adds: 'Our mom taught us to be royal. We are different - there is royalty in our veins'

@highlight

She says: 'Mom always said that if they made a film about her, only I could play her - I'm the only one who could sing her songs like she did'

@highlight

Whitney died on February 11, 2012, after years of battling drug addictionWhen Arizona Cardinals defensive end Darnell Dockett asked Katherine Webb out to a strip club during her now famous appearance on ESPN, he met the wrath of her quarterback boyfriend.

And Dockett will no doubt enrage Webb's beau, Alabama player A.J. McCarron, once more - after he claimed: 'I would have got her if I really wanted her.'

Speaking on a Phoenix radio show, Dockett also said 23-year-old Webb, who is the reigning Miss Alabama, is not his type, joking that he liked girls 'with a couple stab wounds [or] bullet holes'.

Scroll down to listen

Rivalry: Arizona Cardinals Defensive 
tackle Darnell Dockett (left) asked out 
Katherine Webb, the reigning Miss Alabama (right), much to the anger of her boyfriend, Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron

Katherine Webb became an internet 
sensation after the ESPN cameras panned to her in the stands as she 
watched McCarron's team take the BCS National Championship earlier this 
month.

'I'm telling you, you quarterbacks, 
you get all the good looking women,' veteran sportscaster Brent 
Musburger, 73, gushed as the camera stayed on Webb. 'What a beautiful 
woman.'

She also apparently caught the eye of Dockett, who tweeted: 'When game over, lets go to wing stop then King of diamond' - referring to a strip club.

He added his phone number, but later claimed it was supposed to be a private message and deleted the tweets.

Favourite: Webb became an internet sensation after she was shown in the stands at the BCS game

Oops: Dockett tweeted Webb during the game to invite her to a strip club - before later saying it was supposed to be a private message. He's now said that the whole thing was just a joke

McCarron was quick to step up for his
 girlfriend, tweeting: '@ddockett u better worry ab being in them 
playoffs, then going to king of diamonds homie.. #betterkeepdreaming 
like the rest of these dude.'

Dockett told McCarron 'she cute but 
not my type' before uploading a photoshopped picture of him with Webb 
and McCarron and the caption: 'I was always taught to share your blessings!'

He has now spoken about the comical rivalry during an interview with Xtra 910 AM, denying that he was never trying to chat her up - as she simply wasn't his type.

'If I really want to get his girl, 
there would a bunch of different ways I would have gone about it. And I 
would have got her if I really wanted her. But I don't think she's my 
type,' he said.

Sense of humour: Dockett uploaded this doctored picture of himself with Webb and McCarron

Having a laugh: He also uploaded these images; right, he writes about his 'relationship' with Webb

'I'm not into the thinner girls and 
the modeling thing like that. I like hood chicks. I like girls with a 
couple stab wounds, bullet holes, been knocked up a few times... I like 
girls who you know have bad credit when they're 21.'

He added that the Twitter messages were just a joke.

'I was just laughing at people responding
 because people were really thinking that I was gonna put my number on 
Twitter,' he said.

'Anybody that knows Darnell Dockett - the real me, not just
 the football player - anyone that 
knows me personally knows there is never a dull moment in my life... I'm always thinking of the next trick.'

Stunning: Webb, 23, is the reigning Miss Alabama and has been dating McCarron for around two months

Winner: She was watching boyfriend A.J. McCarron as his team took the BCS Championship title

He went on: 'She's a very beautiful girl... I just wanted to take her out of her rich environment and bring her to get some of these garlic wings and barbecue wings and go see a few strippers and things like that so she can appreciate what she's doing.'

Webb, who has since had jobs offers from reality television shows and Donald Trump, did not take the tweets so light-heartedly, however.

'That is not attractive at all,' 
she told Esquire. 'It's very disrespectful and A.J. did not like it at 
all. Clearly, the news says I'm his girlfriend, so it's very 
inappropriate for another guy to tweet me and purposely try and create 
drama.'

@highlight

Dockett tweeted Webb as she was seen cheering on her boyfriend Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron at BCS Championship game

@highlight

McCarron quipped that he 'better keep dreaming'

@highlight

Dockett has now said that Webb is not his type as he like girls 'with a couple of stab wounds or bullet holes''Wriggling': Miliband as Labour Party Parliamentary Candidate for Doncaster North in 2005

Ed Miliband has finally admitted that The Mail on Sunday’s account of his Mr Bean-type blunders when he lived with the family of a former Labour mayor is true.

In a speech in Westminster last week, the Labour leader tried to make light of his habit of getting into scrapes.

But his attempt to play down his ‘Calamity Ed’ image stalled as he made a series of eccentric and contentious remarks, including:

Miliband’s comments broke his silence after this newspaper’s serialisation of an explosive new book by Martin Winter, the former mayor of Doncaster.

Winter claims Miliband’s ‘clueless and arrogant’ behaviour while he lived with his family in the run-up to the 2005 General Election made him lose faith in him.

Miliband and his advisers initially dismissed the revelations as ‘ancient history’ – but it didn’t stop David Cameron, Boris Johnson and others taunting him.

It led to the Labour leader responding on Thursday in a speech to more than 200 people, including many of Britain’s leading political journalists, at the Commons.

He devoted a large chunk of his speech to this newspaper and Winter, admitted the reports were true, and even said he found the accounts of his bumbling behaviour ‘hilarious’. However, some members of the audience were mystified by Miliband’s attempt to laugh off the book’s extraordinary disclosures – such as the incident when he nearly killed himself when he accidentally set fire to Winter’s office and, inexplicably, bought the family a £25 Muslim prayer mat for Christmas to cover the hole burnt in the carpet.

‘They [the MoS] revealed how I gave Martin a Muslim prayer mat to cover up a singed carpet,’ said Miliband. ‘I just thought it was what we in the Jewish community call a nice piece of schmutter.’

There was laughter when he continued facetiously: ‘They [The MoS] got me banged to rights because this atheist Jew confesses tonight to being a secret Muslim. That was during my Islamic arsonist phase.’

But there were raised eyebrows when he compared his prayer mat gift to the attempt in 2011 by Right-wing US tycoon Donald Trump to smear Obama by suggesting he was a Muslim and not born in America. That incident caused outrage among Obama’s supporters. Miliband mused: ‘I was wondering, where have I heard that before about a political leader? I think Donald Trump is available to go in search of my birth certificate and prove where I was really born.’

Martin Winter (pictured left with Cherie Blair centre), said Mr Miliband told local councillor Nora Troops (far right) 'Nice carp you've got there', after looking at pictures of her fishing trophies

Miliband confirmed Winter’s account, reported by The Mail on Sunday, of how he nearly missed a meeting with Gordon Brown when he locked himself into his own house.

He recalled: ‘Eventually – and this is true – I escaped through a window and therefore made history as the first person to make a break for freedom to get closer to Gordon Brown.’

He tried to ridicule one of Winter’s most damaging revelations, that Miliband told him in October 2007 – a year before the UK financial crash – that the British economy was about to ‘fall off a cliff’, and that Labour had wanted to call an early election to cling to power before voters found out. ‘I am apparently Mystic Mili,’ said the Labour leader sarcastically.

Mr Winter said last night: ‘Mr Miliband (pictured) can sneer all he likes. He cannot deny saying he knew the economy was about to fall off a cliff because he said it in my house.'

‘I kept the global financial crisis from everyone and revealed it to only one person – not the head of the World Bank, the IMF, or the governor of the Bank of England, but someone at the epicentre of global finance – the mayor of Doncaster.’

Mr Winter said last night: ‘Mr Miliband can sneer all he likes. He cannot deny saying he knew the economy was about to fall off a cliff because he said it in my house.

‘In mocking a local political ally he mocks all his supporters and his own town.’

Linking an emotional passage about his grandfather who died in a Nazi labour camp to the media’s role in the coming Election, Mr Miliband said ‘some tough stuff’ had been written about him in recent weeks.

He added that ‘truth-telling’ was part of the job of the press – as had been ‘very ably demonstrated by The Mail on Sunday’.

The killing of the Charlie Hebdo cartoonists by Islamist terrorists in France underlined the need for a free press, he said.

But he went on to argue that he and other politicians should be taken more seriously by the media. Journalists should ‘report on what [politicians] believe’ and not encourage ‘cynicism’ by suggesting they had ‘base motives’.

Press and MPs alike were ‘custodians of politics and its reputation’.

One observer said: ‘It was entertaining, moving and cringe-making all at the same time.

‘He wriggled about knowing the economy was falling off a cliff in 2007. He seemed to say “poke fun at politicians – but not me”. Winter has got under his skin.’

Ed Miliband was presented with a light-hearted list of his top ten calamities when he lived with Martin Winter.

The ‘Top Ten Edisms’ – as the Winter family called it – were inspired by the Labour leader’s own description of incidents which occurred when he first became MP for Doncaster in 2005. They include:

In his book, Fallout, Mr Winter tells how he and his family got a unique insight into Miliband when he secured his selection as a Labour candidate.

‘We gave him the list of “Edisms” because he got involved in so many catastrophes when he lived here,’ Winter says. ‘It was like having Frank Spencer as a lodger. It was meant in good fun and Miliband joined in the laughter.’

THE 'EDISMS':

1. ‘Things like that always happen around me.’

Winter says: ‘Miliband candidly admitted he had a reputation for getting into awkward spots – usually of his own making.’

2. ‘No… I can’t smell burning.’

Winter: ‘This was inspired by the way we found him in a semi comatose state in the office in my garden, having set fire to the carpet. For a moment we thought he might be dead.’

3. ‘Tyson, Tyson, get down! Oo it bit me!’

Winter: ‘When Ed visited retiring Doncaster MP Kevin Hughes to ask for his support, Kevin’s Staffordshire terrier, Tyler – Tyson as we called it – attacked him. It ripped his jacket and he had to wave his arm around to shake it off.’

4. ‘Nice carp you’ve got there, Nora.’

Winter: ‘Ed asked local Labour councillor Nora Troops, a keen angler who had lots of photos of her with carp on the wall, to back him. I said, “What on earth did you say to her?” He said this.’

5. ‘Hi guys – am I Blair or Cliff?’

Winter: ‘He didn’t like Tony Blair at all and took the mickey out of him by doing an impression – “Hi guys, who am I?” – and when you said “Blair,” he would say, “No, it’s Cliff”.’

Ed Miliband mocked Tony Blair (right) in an impersonation that made him sound like Cliff Richard (left)

6. ‘I do have cultural reference points, you know.’

Winter: ‘We tried to help him connect to ordinary people by getting him to have a flutter on the Grand National or have the occasional pint, but he didn’t get it, and doesn’t have interests or knowledge outside politics.’

7. ‘John Prescott? A joke politician.’

Winter: ‘I have always rated John Prescott as someone who understands working-class people, but whenever his name was mentioned, Ed would scoff, “He’s just a joke politician”.’

8. ‘Help! I’m locked in my house and I’m meeting Gordon in 20 minutes!’

Winter: ‘Ed had to be rescued by my partner because he couldn’t unlock his own front door when Gordon Brown visited.’

9. ‘Has she really got 19 cats?’

Winter: ‘Ed had just been to visit a local Labour supporter and it was the first thing he said to me when he came back. It had us in stitches.’

10. ‘Did he just call me Jim?’

Winter: ‘We initially gave Miliband the code name Jim to conceal the fact that I was backing him as mayor – but Miliband blurted it out by mistake when we were in the pub.’

The Winters also chose two songs for a farewell party for Miliband – The Trammps’s Disco Inferno, with the lyrics ‘Burn baby burn’, and Smooth Operator by Sade.

Winter: ‘He was always telling us what a smooth operator he was – sadly he was too busy for the party to take place. He was in such a hurry to leave that he left some possessions behind.’

 

@highlight

Ed Miliband has finally admitted the MoS account of his blunders is true

@highlight

In a speech last night, he tried to make light of habit of getting into scrapes

@highlight

But his attempts to play it down stalled as he made more calamities

@highlight

It follows the MoS serialisation of an explosive new book by Martin Winter

@highlight

Miliband and his advisers initially dismissed revelations as 'ancient history'

@highlight

Comparing his gift of a Muslim prayer mat to replace a carpet burnt in an office fire he started by accident to a notorious attempt to smear Barack Obama as a ‘Muslim’.

@highlight

Calling the prayer mat ‘a piece of schmutter’ – Yiddish for ‘cloth’.

@highlight

Jokingly referring to himself as ‘an Islamic arsonist’ and ‘secret Muslim’.

@highlight

Mockingly implying that the former mayor of Doncaster – where Miliband is an MP – is a nonentity.

@highlight

Defending the right of a free press to lampoon politicians – while hinting they shouldn’t do it to him.

@highlight

Mr Winter’s book, Fallout, goes on sale in April from Amazon and other stores, £20. ISBN: 978-1-78148-451-7.By 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

08:58 EST, 25 November 2012


| 

UPDATED:

09:30 EST, 25 November 2012

Magician Penn Jillette says there's nothing magical about The Celebrity Apprentice or its creator, Donald Trump, ripping the tycoon who regularly Googles himself and 'desperately' cares what people think about him.

Jillette, known mostly for being half of the Penn and Teller entertainment act, appeared on Celebrity Apprentice twice.

In his tell-all book, Every Day Is an Atheist Holiday!, Jillette criticized reality television as a whole, but blasted Celebrity Apprentice as a program that 'has nothing to do with business.'

Scroll down for video

The mogul and the magician: Penn Jillette, right, has some not-so-kind words for Donald Trump, left in his latest book

Cast: Jillette, far right, appeared on Celebrity Apprentice twice, most recently on Celebrity Apprentice All-Stars earlier this year

Jillette writes: 'The secret truth of
The Celebrity Apprentice is that it isn’t very hard. The tasks are 
nothing. Makeup starts just after 5am and the show goes to about 10pm, 
but you spend most of that time doing nothing.'

He adds: 'The Celebrity Apprentice is junior high with a better brand of acne cover-up.'

Author: Every Day Is an Atheist Holiday is the latest of several books Jillette has written

An excerpt of the book was posted on Salon.com.

Jillette's criticism of Trump was also marked by what's on the famed real estate mogul's head.

'I wasn’t even going to say anything 
about Trump’s hair. I live in a glass house. I’ve always had ugly, 
out-of-style hair. Trump’s hair is a lot better than mine - but as I sat
there for hours half listening to Donald carry on, it struck me exactly
what his hair looked like.

'It looks like cotton candy made of p***. That revelation came to me, and I had to type it here. But my hair is worse.'

And Trump wasn’t the only target of Jillette’s writings. He also had something to say about Celebrity Apprentice co-star Clay Aiken.

He wrote: 'One day while shooting, I’d had a heart-to-heart talk with Clay Aiken. I would have preferred waterboarding. I don’t like heart-to-heart talks with anyone, but Clay Aiken? Strap me to the board, and put the wet towels over my face. Drowning sounds nice.'

As for Celebrity Apprentice, Jillette says the show has no rules - it's just Trump 'doing what he wants.'

'We’ve chosen to make this whackjob, with the cotton candy p*** hair and the birther s***, into someone we want to please.'

Trump, who is normally very active on Twitter, has not yet made any mention of Jillette’s book or a reaction to his claims.

Watch video here

@highlight

Penn Jillette appeared on two seasons of The Celebrity Apprentice

@highlight

In his new book, Jillette criticizes the reality show, as well as its creator, Donald TrumpBy 
Hayley Peterson

PUBLISHED:

14:51 EST, 11 August 2013


| 

UPDATED:

05:22 EST, 12 August 2013

Donald Trump called the U.S. a 'laughingstock' on Saturday and said Republicans better find a strong presidential candidate or they will face certain defeat in the 2016 election.

In a speech to the Family Leadership Summit, a gathering of Christian conservatives in Iowa, Trump warned that Hillary Clinton will be 'really tough' to beat if she runs for president in 2016. 

'It’s going to be in my opinion a tougher race than the last race,' he said, according to the Des Moines Register. 'Really tough. And somebody’s going to have to emerge who’s really strong. … The Republicans have to do what’s right. If they don’t pick the right person – it’s got to be the perfect person – they are going to get drubbed in the 2016 election.'

Donald Trump speaks during the family leadership summit in Ames, Iowa Saturday Aug. 10, 2013

He also warned against immigration reform, saying it could be a 'death wish' for the party. 

'Do what’s right, but be very careful,' he said.

In an interview with NBC News following his remarks, Trump summed up his views on the U.S. saying, 'We used to be the king and the queen all put together, and now we're a laughingstock as a country.'

He declined to say whether he's planning to run for president in 2016, though he offered up his opinion on why he would be a good candidate. 

'I've built a tremendous company - I've built a net worth that is a fantastic net worth. I have very little debt, I have tremendous cash,' he said. 'We have to create tremendous wealth so we can take care of Social Security and Medicare and all of the things that we can't afford right now. And I think I'd be very very good at doing that.'

Trump declined to say whether he plans to run for president in 2016, though he offered up his opinion on why he would be a good candidate

On ABC's 'This Week' on Sunday, he elaborated on his wealth, estimating that he's worth about $10 billion. 

'If I made a decision [to run], I’d spend a lot,' he said. 'If I did it, I’d spend whatever it took.'

He also signaled that he's not done raising questions about President Obama's birth certificate.

'Some people say that was not his birth certificate. I’m saying I don’t know,' Trump said. 'Nobody knows. And you don’t know either, Jonathan. You’re a smart guy, and you don’t know.'

Trump was addressing interviewer Jonathon Karl, who responded that he is 'pretty sure' Obama's birth certificate is legitimate.

@highlight

Trump addressed the Family Leadership Summit, a gathering of Christian conservatives in Iowa, on Saturday

@highlight

He also signaled that he's not done raising questions about President Obama's birth certificate

@highlight

Speaking on ABC's 'This Week,' he said if he decides to run for president he would 'spend whatever it took'

@highlight

He estimated his net worth at $10 billionGoogle is developing special versions of it's most popular products for children, it has revealed.

The firm hopes that a child friendly version of YouTube and its chrome browser could make the internet safer for youngsters.

It says it is aiming the news products at under twelves. 

Google hopes its new products will make it easier - and safer- for children to use the web.

A recent study said the iPad has now overtaken household names such as McDonalds and Disney to become the number one brand among American 6-12 year olds.

The annual study, conducted by leading youth and family research firm Smarty Pants, ranks more than 250 brands each year. 

 

'The big motivator inside the company is everyone is having kids, so there's a push to change our products to be fun and safe for children,' Pavni Diwanji, the vice president of engineering charged with leading the new initiative, told USA Today.

'We expect this to be controversial, but the simple truth is kids already have the technology in schools and at home,' says the mother of two daughters, ages 8 and 13. 

'So the better approach is to simply see to it that the tech is used in a better way.' 

Google is developing the products in a secret room at its Mountain View,'Googleplex' called the Kids Studio. 

Diwanji said her own daughter was part of the test group, and has already given the team some guidance after  Googling 'trains' and seeing a list of Amtrak train schedules pop up.

'She came to me and said, 'Mommy, you should tell Google about Thomas the Tank Engine, because Google obviously doesn't know about him,'' Diwanji said.

Although Google has not said which products will be released, it is believe search, youTube and Chrome are the most likely.

It comes as youngsters increase have their own tablets to play on. 

A recent study said the iPad has now overtaken household names such as McDonalds and Disney to become the number one brand among American 6-12 year olds.

A recent study said the iPad has now overtaken household names such as McDonalds and Disney to become the number one brand among American 6-12 year olds.

The annual study, conducted by leading youth and family research firm Smarty Pants, ranks more than 250 brands each year. 

'iPad's number one status among kids represents the culmination of the 'tablet takeover' – a movement from shared screens and TV network dominance to curated content on personal devices,' said Wynne Tyree, president of Smarty Pants.

'Kids increasingly turn to iPad for games, TV shows, videos, books, homework help and communicating with friends and family.'

In the firm's 2014 study, Apple's iPad trumps iconic kid brands such as McDonald's, Toys'R'Us, Nickelodeon, and Disney. 

@highlight

Google hopes apps will make web safer you children to use

@highlight

Has created special lab at its Googleplex HQ to study children 

@highlight

Recent study said iPad has now number one brand among 6-12 year oldsEven billionaires sometimes struggle to find space to park.

For Roman Abramovich, that moment came when he tried to moor his £1billion yacht Eclipse - the largest in the world at 557ft long.

The Russian tycoon was beaten to the only space in the harbour big enough to moor his giant vessel, Eclipse.

Chelsea battleship: Eclipse, the world's biggest yacht, owned by Russian businessman Roman Abramovich, lies at anchor off the coast of Antibes, near Nice, south-eastern France

Saudi Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal 
Alsaud - whose own yacht Kingdom KR5 is a mere 265ft long - took the 
coveted mooring in ‘Millionaire’s Quay’ in Antibes, in the French 
Riviera.

Prince Al-Waleed is the world’s 26th richest man with £12.3billion, according to Forbes magazine, while Mr Abramovich is 53rd with a fortune of £8.4billion.

Holiday on the Med: Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich and girlfriend Dasha Zhukova

The last space in Europe’s biggest yachting harbour simply wasn’t big enough for the two superyachts.

So the Chelsea FC owner was left with
 little option but to drop anchor several hundred feet out at sea - and 
then travel to his villa on the shore by motorboat.

Mr Abramovich’s crew had pleaded to 
be allowed to moor in the harbour, but were told it would be impossible 
to ‘squeeze Eclipse in’ as it was ‘far too big’.

‘Mr Abramovich has a villa in the 
town, and is, of course, always welcome to disembark with his family, 
but with a yacht this size it was not possible,’ a source at the port 
said yesterday.

‘Instead Eclipse had to be sailed out to sea and left there.’

Mr Abramovich, 41, who has six 
children with his first wife Irina and girlfriend Daria Zhukova, often 
uses his fleet of luxury boats to ferry his family up and down the 
Mediterranean.

But none has ever compared to 
Eclipse, which has two swimming pools, two helicopter pads, a dedicated 
disco hall, around 30 cabins, a mini-submarine, and even a missile 
defence system.

Beaten: Chelsea-owning oligarch Abramovich's current flagship vessel Eclipse (pictured) will be knocked off the top spot by the new boat

People carrier: Mr Abramovich often uses his fleet of yachts to ferry his family, including his six children, up and down the Mediterranean

Luxury: Eclipse had an initial order cost of £300million, but this rose to nearly £1billion after all the fixtures and fittings Mr Abramovich wanted were added to the boat

This port ain't big enough for the both of us: The super yacht of Saudi Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal Alsaud was already moored in Antibes preventing Abramovich from parking his vessel

It also has armour-plating around 
Abramovich’s master suite, bullet-proof windows and a laser system 
designed to dazzle long-lens photographers.

Fabulous wealth: Saudi Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal Alsaud

When it was ordered the initial cost 
was estimated at around £330million, but by the time Mr Abramovich took
 delivery last year it was spiralling towards the £1billion mark because
 of the extra luxury fittings and security measures.

Prince Al-Waleed’s vessel, though smaller, has a fascinating history of its own.

The boat, which can carry 22 
passengers and 31 crew, was built in 1980 and bought by Saudi 
billionaire, Adnan Khashoggi under the name Nabila.

It featured in the 1983 James Bond film Never Say Never Again – as ‘The Flying Saucer’ – owned by villain Maximilian Largo.

Its other owners have included Donald
 Trump, who named it the Trump Princess.

Prince Al-Waleed bought the 
yacht in 1991, and renamed it Kingdom 5KR after his investment company 
Kingdom Holdings, his lucky number 5 and the initials of two of his 
children.

The prince is the owner of the Savoy hotel in London, and his investment company plans to finance the construction of the world’s tallest building - the Kingdom Tower - in Saudi Arabia.

Antibes is the largest yachting harbour in Europe with more than 2,000 moorings - but only one spot big enough for Eclipse.

Mr Abramovich had applied to Antibes council three years ago to build his own pontoon at the villa, but the plans were rejected.

A spokesman for the Antibes 
International Yacht Club said: ‘The only space where it could fit is 
already taken, though there are plans to build another large berth in 
the coming coming years.’

Eclipse was built by the Blohm and Voss shipyard in Hamburg, Germany, and delivered to Abramovich last December.

The oligarch also owns three other mega-yachts, the Pelorus (377ft), the 
Ecstasea (282ft) and the Sussurro (161ft).

Abramovich once lent the Pelorus to Chelsea footballers Frank Lampard and John Terry as a ‘bonus’ for playing well.

Annual running costs for his fleet are around £16million including full tanks of petrol at around £70,000 per yacht.

@highlight

Antibes port authorities tell tycoon there's no space for his superyacht

@highlight

Mooring already occupied by 265ft boat belonging to a Saudi prince

@highlight

At 557ft Abramovich's Eclipse is world's largest private yachtBy 
Mary Mcconnell

UPDATED:

06:11 EST, 28 December 2011

Barack Obama has topped a list of Americans' most admired men, even though his presidential approval ratings stand at just 47 per cent.

When asked which man they most admired, 17 per of Americans named the US president, while Hillary Clinton, the US Secretary of State, topped the female list, also with 17 per cent.

US TV star Oprah Winfrey was the second 
most admired woman, and Mr Obama's wife, Michelle, was third. Former 
British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was seventh and The Queen ninth
on the list.

Public support: Barack Obama was the most admired man among Americans despite low presidential approval ratings

The poll was carried out by public 
opinion website Gallup, who asked Americans, without prompting, to name 
their most admired man and woman living today.

Behind Mr Obama in the men's poll were former presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, who gained three and two per cent of the vote, respectively. The evangelical Christian Reverend Billy Graham was fourth.

Americans' support for Mr Obama hit an all-time low in October when he was given a 38 per cent approval rating. It has since risen to 47 per cent but it remains a far cry from the 69 per cent approval rating he gained when he first came to office three years ago.

Seal of approval: US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been named the most admired woman for the tenth year in a row

Mrs Clinton has topped Gallup's poll, which has been running since 1946, for the tenth year in a row, while Mr Obama has been the most admired man for the past four years.

1. Barack Obama

2. George W. Bush

3. Bill Clinton

4. Rev. Billy Graham

5. Warren Buffett

6. Newt Gingrich

7. Donald Trump

8. Pope Benedict XVI 

9. Bill Gates

10.Thomas Monson

The Queen has never finished first in the poll but she has been in the top ten more than any other woman, making a record 44th appearance this year. She first made the top ten in 1948, five years before she was crowned. Mrs Thatcher has the second highest number of appearances on the top ten for women at 33.

Rev Graham has clocked up the highest number of appearances on the men's list, making the top ten 55 times, although he has never been voted the most admired man. That accolade usually goes to the American president, who has topped the list for the past 31 years.

Admiration: The Queen has been on Gallup's top ten 44 times

The most admired men and women typically come from the worlds of government, religion, business and entertainment or humanitarian causes. There are three business leaders in the men's list - Warren Buffett, Donald Trump and Bill Gates - and three religious leaders - Rev Graham, Pope Benedict XVI and Thomas Monson, the leader of the Mormon Church.

1. Hillary Clinton

2. Oprah Winfrey

3. Michelle Obama

4. Sarah Palin

5. Condoleezza Rice

6. Laura Bush

7. Margaret Thatcher

8. Ellen DeGeneres

9. Queen Elizabeth II

10. Michele Bachmann

Among the women there are eight from government and two from television - Ms Winfrey and chat show host Ellen DeGeneres. Former vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin, who was voted the second most admired woman over the past three years, has fallen two places this year to number four.

Dwight Eisenhower holds the record for first-place finishers among men, with 12, followed by Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton with eight each. In total Hillary Clinton has topped the Gallup list 16 times, Eleanor Roosevelt is second with 13 number one finishes.

@highlight

Hillary Clinton named most admired woman for record 16th time

@highlight

Former vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin has dropped from second to fourthBy 
Daily Mail Reporter

Last updated at 2:25 PM on 11th February 2012

They were once united in common cause - and their mutual appreciation saw Donald Trump invite Alex Salmond to join him and Sean Connery to be the first to tee off at his new multimillion pound golf course.

But several years later, the feel-good era between the New York property tycoon and Scotland's political leaders seems to have come to a dramatic end.

Trump has launched a blistering attack on Scotland's First Minister over plans to build a 'horrendous' wind farm off the coast of his luxury Scottish golf resort.

In happier times: Alex Salmond, left, poses with Donald Trump at a fashion show in New York in 2006

In an open letter, Trump accuses Salmond of being 'hell bent on destroying Scotland's coast line and therefore Scotland itself'.

The bitter words are a far cry from the love-in the two men enjoyed four years ago when Salmond backed Trump's £750 million golf development 12 miles north of Aberdeen, despite protests from environmentalists and locals about damage to rare sand dunes.

Back then, Trump invited Salmond to join him and actor Sean Connery to be the first to tee off on what the businessman described as 'the world's greatest golf course'.

Trump also heaped praise on Salmond's administration after it overruled local councillors who rejected the planned golf resort.

The Scottish leader backed the golf course by claiming it would create hundreds of tourism jobs around the Aberdeenshire area.

Locals and environmentalists campaigned in vain to save the sand dunes which were home to numerous species of wading birds and wildlife, but the dunes were bulldozed to make way for the fairways in 2009 and 2010. The course is due to open in July.

The development's website said the development would span around 500 hectares of land, with a championship links golf course, a second 18-hole links golf course, a hotel surrounded by luxury holiday homes, and a residential village within the Menie Estate.

Visit: Donald Trump on the Menie Estate, the site of his controversial luxury golf resort

Salmond's support for the wind farm is consistent with the Scottish government's plan to position itself as a leader in the provision and technology of renewable energy. The wind farm's turbines will be visible from the beach and the golf course.

Aides to Salmond told the Herald that any suggestion Trump's intervention would influence Mr Salmond's commitment to renewables would be 'laughable'.

And Niall Stuart, chief executive of Scottish Renewables, which represents the wind farm industry, reacted with anger to the intervention.

'Who is Donald Trump to tell Scotland what is good for our economy or environment?' Stuart said in a statement.

'He completely over-blows the impact of the proposed wind farm and to be honest there are so many mistakes in this "trumped up" nonsense that it's difficult to know where to begin.'

Trump tells Salmond in the ill-tempered letter: 'With the reckless installation of these monsters, you will single-handedly have done more damage to Scotland than any event in Scottish history!'

Natural beauty: Balmedie country park in Aberdeenshire. Trump said: 'When I saw this piece of land I was overwhelmed by the imposing dunes and rugged Aberdeenshire coastline'

He adds: 'I will never be "on board", as you have stated I would be, with this insanity.'

The tycoon warns Salmond that he will be using his wealth to fight his government's renewables policy.

'I have just authorized my staff to allocate a substantial amount of money to launch an international campaign to fight your plan to surround Scotland's coast with many thousands of wind turbines - it will be like looking through the bars of a prison and Scottish citizens will be like prisoners!'

He ridicules the Scottish National Party's renewable energy policies, claiming the economic benefit is going to China and other countries, not Scotland.

'Jobs will not be created in Scotland because these ugly monstrosities known as turbines are manufactured in other countries such as China.

'These countries, who so benefit from your billions of pounds of payments, are laughing at you!' Trump said.

Trump concludes the attack by referring to his mother, who was raised in Scotland.

He adds: 'I'm doing this to save Scotland and honor my mother...'

@highlight

Tycoon says his opposition to wind farm off the coast of his luxury Scottish golf resort is 'to save Scotland and honor my mother...''To hell and back': Virginia Roberts has turned her life around... but fears reprisals after going public

The woman at the centre of the Prince Andrew under-age sex scandal was forced to flee her home and ‘fears for her life’, her aunt claimed last night. 

Virginia Roberts, 31, sparked headlines around the globe when she filed sensational court papers claiming she slept with the Prince three times, including as a juvenile of 17 under Florida law, while working as a teen ‘sex slave’ for convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein.

Last night Virginia’s aunt Carol Roberts Kess, a devout Mormon who helped raise her, spoke for the first time to tell how terrified Virginia fled her Florida home several months ago amid fears of reprisals from billionaire Epstein and his rich and powerful friends.

‘She knew these court papers were coming out so she packed up and fled,’ Carol said. 

‘She is frightened for her life. She has angered a lot of powerful and very rich people. Who knows what they could do?’

Carol, the sister of Virginia’s father Sky, said her niece is now living in a ranch ‘in the middle of nowhere’ in Colorado with her husband and three young children.

‘She doesn’t feel safe,’ retired teacher Carol added. 

‘There are too many powerful people involved and she is saying things they don’t want made public.

‘Virginia was living a happy life in Florida but she packed up and left because she knew this was coming and was scared for her own life and that of her family.

‘Just before she left she told me she wouldn’t be able to contact any family members for a while – for our own safety. She said, “It’s for the best. I don’t want to put anyone in danger.”’

Carol says she has ‘no reason not to believe’ her niece’s claims she slept with Prince Andrew three times, in New York, London and the Virgin Islands– accusations the Prince vehemently denies.

And asked about claims that Virginia, who is writing a book of her story, was a fantasist out to profit from the scandal, Carol said: ‘Virginia is not a fantasist, I don’t believe this is about the money.’

Despite the headlines, little is known about the woman at the heart of the scandal. 

The Mail on Sunday has spoken to members of Virginia’s family and close friends and has unearthed court papers which reveal a heartbreaking tale of a ‘good Christian girl’ whose life spiralled out of control after she was repeatedly sexually assaulted by older men at a young age.

It is a cautionary saga, according to her aunt, ‘of how things can go real bad, real quickly’. 

‘My niece went to hell and back,’ she said.

Virginia was born in 1983 to Sky Roberts, an odd-job man and ‘horse-loving cowboy’, and Lynn, a bank worker who already had a two-year-old son Daniel from a previous marriage. The family lived in Sacramento, California but moved to Loxahatchee in Palm Beach County, Florida, when Virginia was just four years old.

Another aunt, Kimberley Roberts, said yesterday: ‘The family wasn’t wealthy but Lynn came from money and Virginia was given a trust fund by her maternal grandmother. 

'Lynn’s mother took the family on lavish holidays when Virginia was a child. She was brought up with good morals; respect your parents, don’t talk back, don’t drink or do drugs.’

But while Virginia’s early years on her father’s small ranch were ‘idyllic’ according to aunt Carol, everything changed when she was 12 and was molested by a family friend: ‘He said he needed to send Virginia to live with me. Of course I said yes immediately.' 

Carol, who was then living in Monterey, California, added: ‘I’m a Mormon. I don’t drink, smoke or drink caffeine. Virginia needed stability.

'She was very quiet and had an eating disorder. She’d have a piece of lettuce and say she’d eaten. If your world feels out of control the one part of your life you can control is what you eat.’

Virginia returned to live with her parents after a year when the molester, a neighbour, moved out of the area. 

But when she returned to Florida, Virginia, then 13, went off the rails.

Family ties: A snap of Virginia Roberts, left, with her aunt Carol Kess. Carol says she has ‘no reason not to believe’ her niece’s claims she slept with Andrew three times - accusations the Prince vehemently denies

In an interview with The Mail on Sunday in 2011, Virginia said the fallout from the molestation caused her parents to temporarily split. She admitted living on the streets where she was ‘beaten up’ and slept with at least two older men in return for food: ‘I was a paedophile’s dream,’ she said.

The Mail on Sunday has now seen court papers showing transcript of a telephone conversation with lawyer in which Virginia said: ‘A close family friend has sexually abused me and I was on the streets at 13. 

'I was picked up by a 67-year-old man who did exactly what Jeffrey did with me, abuse and violate my youthfulness and I was with him for six months.’ The Mail on Sunday has chosen not to name the man who, we believe, is now dead.

Carol said she didn’t know what happened, adding: ‘I am not saying that doesn’t make it true. I believe what Virginia says.’

Other friends from that time say Virginia sank into drug addiction. One said: ‘She smoked weed and didn’t spend a lot of time at school. Her elder brother Daniel took her to rehab aged just 15 or 16. Virginia was definitely troubled, but she wouldn’t speak about her demons with anyone – she just kept it bottled up.’

'Thrilled': Carol said Virginia's family was excited when she showed them this 2001 photograph of Prince Andrew with his arm around her

At 15, Virginia’s world changed when she met Ghislaine Maxwell, the-then girlfriend of billionaire Jeffrey Epstein. Virginia’s father was a maintenance man at Mar A Largo, Donald Trump’s luxury hotel in Palm Beach, Florida; his daughter folded towels at the pool.

Ghislaine, Virginia has said in court papers, recruited her into Epstein’s harem of young ‘masseuses’ whose primary job was to satisfy the financier’s twisted sexual fantasies. However Ghislaine, the daughter of press baron Robert Maxwell, has branded such claims against her as ‘untrue’ and ‘obvious lies’.

An old friend of Virginia’s recalled: ‘We had our doubts about why exactly Jeffrey had picked this young girl to be his favourite masseuse, when she didn’t know much about it, especially when he started flying her around the world. But she didn’t say anything about the abuse until much later.

‘Once she’d told her boyfriend at the time the truth they then decided she shouldn’t work there any longer. But Epstein wanted her there and was used to getting his way. He lured her back and told her she wouldn’t have to do so much of the sexual stuff if she could bring in other girls from school.’ 

This had been Epstein’s modus operandi for years: encouraging girls to bring in more girls to feed his perverted desires. It was described by one lawyer as a ‘pyramid of sexual abuse’.

Virginia’s family say they were ‘stunned’ when they learned she had been passed around as a sex toy.

Aunt Carol said: ‘How she got seduced into Epstein’s world I don’t know. I can’t get inside Virginia’s head to know what made her vulnerable to Epstein. 

'They were really good at what they did and they were able to accomplish what they accomplished.

‘My brother thought it was all very legitimate. When Virginia told us she’d met Prince Andrew we were thrilled. Virginia gave my Mum a copy of the picture of Andrew with his arm around her – the picture which has now been seen around the world. At the time my reaction was “Wow, how neat!” I couldn’t believe Virginia had met Prince Andrew. I was ecstatic.

‘All I would say now is that anyone – anyone – who abuses young people deserves to be prosecuted.’

While still in Epstein’s orbit, Virginia was also working at the Roadhouse Grill, a burger bar in Palm Beach, when she was accused of stealing just over £200 from her employer. However, Carol said: ‘I never even knew she worked in a burger place.’ 

Very soon afterwards, at the age of 19, Virginia went to Thailand to take a massage course and fell in love with Australian martial arts expert Robbie Giuffre. They wed within ten days of meeting.

Aunt Carol says: ‘She met Robbie and turned her life around.

‘It breaks my heart that I haven’t been able to speak to her since this blew up but it’s her choice.

‘She knows what she is up against, we don’t. I fear for her, but I also admire her. She’s a strong girl and she will get through this.’

Additional reporting: Peter Sheridan

Sorry we are not currently accepting comments on this article.

@highlight

In court papers, Virginia Roberts claimed she slept with Prince three times

@highlight

She said she was working as a teen 'sex slave' for paedophile Epstein

@highlight

Her aunt told how Ms Roberts, 31, fled Florida home several months ago

@highlight

Said she fled amid fears of reprisals from Epstein and his powerful friendsIt was far from the nicest Saturday, weather-wise, in Manhattan today.

But Ivanka Trump was not going to let a grey sky stop her from a family outing in Central Park.

Effortlessly classy in a smock, the 32-year-old daughter of Donald Trump and her husband, real estate developer Jared Kushner, spent the afternoon strolling around the urban paradise with their two children.

The family outing came just a few days after the celebration of son Joseph's first birthday.

Scroll down for video 

Family time: Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner take their children to Central Park in New York on Saturday October 18, 2014

Adorable: The little outing took place just a few days after the birthday of one-year-old Joseph

Chic: Ivanka looked typically classy in a camel smock for the excursion in the park

Outing: The couple walked around Central Park with daughter Arabella Rose and son Joseph

Doting dad: Jared Kushner and daughter Arabella, 3, play around in the park 

Rugged: Little Arabella, who has become something of a fashionista, looked warm in the slightly chilly winter

The family-of-four looked like the epitomy of an Upper West Side New York quartet

It appeared the foursome will still celebrating the big 12-month-mark for Joseph.

After a lengthy walk, they stopped by the Central Park Zoo for a look at the animals.

Attending to dad duties, Kushner was in charge of carrying the two-child stroller up the stairs.

On Tuesday the family held a party for Joseph, who was treated to a giant blue birthday cake.

The adorable tot was born in New York at 9.54pm last October 14.

The soiree was held inside the family's Manhattan apartment with friends and family.

'I can't believe how quickly 1 year has gone by. So thankful for the day Joseph came into our life. Happy 1st Birthday Joseph!' Ivanka Tweeted.

The couple's daughter, three-year-old Arabella, appeared besotted over her little brother.

'Careful honey': Kushner lugs the sizable stroller up some stairs 

Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner take their children to Central Park in New York

To the zoo: The family stopped to have a look at the animals

Home time: After their excursion, it was time to head back to the family's Manhattan  apartment

Classy: Ivanka looked effortlessy classy during the walk with husband Jared Kishner, daughter Arabella Rose and son Joseph

Out of the rain: The family-of-four got out the park before a small downpour

Jared Kushner, who Ivanka married in October 2009, owns The New York Observer, and is brother to Josh Kushner, who is currently dating supermodel Karlie Kloss.

Joseph's first name is that of Jared's grandfather, and his middle name is taken from Ivanka's grandfather.

Shortly after his birth, the proud new mom wrote on her Tumblr: 'Jared's grandfather, Joseph, was a rock. His indomitable spirit, his sense of family, and his work ethic are the values we hope to hand down to our son.

'My grandfather, Frederick, was a builder not just of tens of thousands of homes throughout this city, but of a tight-knit family that honors to this day the traditions he established."

Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-2792870/happy-birthday-joseph-ivanka-trump-s-baby-son-turns-one-today-femail-takes-look-tot-s-greatest-instagram-moments-far.html#ixzz3GXSKpJse Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook

 

@highlight

The family-of-four braved bad weather for an outing in Manhattan on Saturday

@highlight

Son Joseph turned one on Tuesday 

@highlight

Ivanka has an estimated net worth of $150 million By 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

19:28 EST, 17 May 2012


| 

UPDATED:

19:28 EST, 17 May 2012

A father with five daughters has spent $1.5 million paying for his girls' college education.

Marc Ostrofsky, an Internet tycoon and best-selling author, tallied up the bill after spending $60,000 to $70,000 on each child every year.

The entrepreneur, from Houston, will travel between three different states at opposite ends of the country this week to watch three of his daughters' graduation ceremonies.

Scroll down for video

Happy family: Mr Ostrofsky, from Houston, Texas at his wedding to wife Beverley with their five daughters

High fliers: Mr Ostrofsky's five daughters will all attend colleges across the U.S.

He begins in North Carolina to watch Kelly, 22, graduated from Duke before heading back to Texas to see his youngest daughter, 18-year-old Mary Grace's high school graduation. She will go on to attend Boston University.

Along with his wife Beverley, he then flies to Washington University in St Louis to watch Shelly graduate.

Twins Shelly and Kelly took the advice of George W. Bush, also the father of twins Jenna and Barbara, when they decided to go to different schools during a meeting with the former president.

Jenna Bush attended the University of Texas while Barbara went to Yale.

Advice: Twin daughters Shelly and Kelly took advice from former president George Bush when he told them to go to different colleges like his own twin daughters

Proud father: Mr Ostrofsky and his twine daughters who were crowned joint valedictorian at their school

Meanwhile another of Mr Ostrofsky's daughters Tracy, 20, is at the University of Denver and 23-year-old Maddy graduated last year from Berklee School of Music in Boston. 

The entrepreneur, from Houston, believes that in the future to be able to afford further education, students will follow a mixture of studies online and in the classroom.

Success story: 23-year-old Maddy (blonde hair) graduated last year from Berklee School of Music in Boston

He told KHOU-TV: 'I think in the future it is going to be different. Not a lot of people are going to play that game.'

Mr Ostrofsky made his millions in the telecoms and dot.com business along with starting and selling on magazines, trade shows and market research studies to earn a fortune.

He sold Business.com for $7.5 million which earned him the title of most expensive domain name ever sold in The Guinness Book of World Records.

He is also the bestselling author of Get Rich Click!: The Ultimate Guide to Making Money Online.

Mr Ostrofsky graduated from the University of Texas with a degree in business administration and marketing.

He beamed with pride when he told the local TV station about his daughters' achievements but when asked about the cost, added: 'Be careful what you wish for.'

And the pricey studies may not end there after daughter Kelly decided she may want to pursue a PHD.

According to FinAid.org in 2011, two-thirds of students graduating with four-year degrees were left with debt of around $23,186.

Clever girls: Tracy, 20 (left) is studying at the University of Denver while Mary Grace, 18, graduates from high school this week and will head to Boston

Like minds: Mr Ostrofsky with real estate mogul Donald Trump (left) and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg

Friends in high places: The Internet entrepreneur meets with President Obama

 

@highlight

Marc Ostrofsky estimated he spends $60 - 70,000 on each girl every yearBy 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

13:31 EST, 10 July 2012


| 

UPDATED:

14:10 EST, 11 July 2012

US tycoon Donald Trump struck the first ball on his new luxury golf course in Scotland on Tuesday, teeing off in a ceremony alongside golfing great Colin Montgomerie.

However, the real estate mogul looked decidedly stout as he hit the green, wearing a pair of belted khaki trousers and a white golf shirt.

Trump has famously dated only svelte, stunning women, often years his junior. Included in that list is former wife Ivana Trump, former first lady of France Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, and actress and socialite Marla Maples.

Scroll down for video

Thumbs up: Real Estate magnate Donald Trump gestures as he plays golf during the opening of his Trump International Golf Links golf course near Aberdeen, northeast Scotland

Tee off: The Donald's trousers seemed a bit tight as he swung a stroke. He finished off his look with a red Trump National cap

His current wife, Melania Knauss-Trump, worked as a model before marrying The Donald.

Fore! Real Estate magnate Donald Trump plays golf during the opening of his Trump International Golf Links golf course near Aberdeen

But slower metabolism may be catching up with the 66-year-old real estate mogul, who has often been the butt of comb over and self-tanning jokes.

The Trump International Golf Links, situated at Menie, north of Aberdeen on the east coast of Scotland, cost more than $155million to build.

Bagpipers escorted Trump and 2010 European Ryder Cup captain Montgomerie to the first hole, where the businessman cut a ribbon on the first tee before taking a swing.

'We have built something that some people have already said is perhaps the greatest golf course in the world,' he said.

'It's something that's going to be very special. What's good for golf is good for Scotland because Scotland is the home front for golf.'

Environmental campaigners opposed the construction of the course on protected sand dunes.

Trump himself complained about a potential offshore wind farm being built near the site.

The course will open to the public on Sunday, with a private events being held this week.

Sandy Jones, chief executive of the Professional Golfers' Association, and George O'Grady, chief executive of the European Tour, said they would work to bring major golf events to the course.

'It is an honour for me to be here... to witness this marvel that we have here in Scotland and it makes me very proud to be a professional Scottish golfer,' Montgomerie said.

Opening ceremony: Trump, left, follows bagpipers to the opening of his Trump International Golf Links golf course

Pals: PGA Chief Executive Sandy Jones, right, puts his arm around Trump as they play golf

A family affair: Ivanka Trump, second from left, was with brothers Eric, far left, and Donald Jnr, second right, with father Donald as they applaud

@highlight

Was in Aberdeen, Scotland to open new golf course

@highlight

Teed off wearing tight-fitting white golf shirt and khaki trousersThe BBC’s voice of golf Peter Alliss has spoken of his ‘great sadness’ at the prospect of the corporation losing live coverage of The Open Championship to Sky. ‘I’m just glad I am 83 not 35 and reliant on working for the BBC’s sports department, because I think I would be looking for another trade,’ he said.

Alliss believes the writing has been on the wall for years, but is disappointed his employers haven’t done more to keep the R&A happy. ‘In one sense it seems to me it’s like playing poker against Donald Trump or Warren Buffett in that the BBC can’t compete against Sky’s bottomless pockets of money,’ he said. ‘And you can’t deny Sky do a fantastic job. 

'You might be annoyed at the adverts but they go to faraway places and cover these events even though there might be only eight people watching on Thursday. Their commitment to show everything is extraordinary.

Legendary golf commentator Peter Alliss will be sad to see The Open leave terrestrial screens 

Rory McIlroy kisses the Claret Jug after his two-stroke victory at the 2014 Open Championship 

McIlory's triumph was available for all to see on BBC, but that all may change with the rumoured new TV deal

‘But, hand on heart, I can’t not criticise the BBC. They are far and away the R&A’s biggest television client, so why haven’t they said to them: “You know, we’re struggling against the financial might of Sky but why don’t we also cover some of the other events you run, like the Amateur Championship and the Boys Championship and the Walker Cup?” We used to do those events years ago, so why not again? I think it would have shown the R&A that they cared. I definitely think going back there were people who fought harder to keep tournaments on the BBC. At one point we covered 18 events.

‘Now you look at the move up to Manchester and how many millions that cost, and you wonder about the value in that. This week we’ve got two or three hours of indoor bowls on each day which of course is of great interest to the people who play it but no interest at all to anyone else. I guess for some people it’s progress but for people like you and I, it seems a move in the opposite direction.’

The ‘crown jewels’ are a list of prestigious sporting events of national importance which may interest non-sports fans. The events are protected under the 1996 Broadcasting Act, which ensures they are shown on free-to-air television — such as the BBC. Delayed highlights of the B-list events also have to be shown on terrestrial television.

Crown Jewels:

- Olympic Games

- World Cup and European Championship finals

- English and Scottish FA Cup finals

- The Grand National and the Derby

- Wimbledon tennis finals

- Rugby Union’s World Cup final

- Rugby League’s Challenge Cup final

B-list:

- England Test matches — exclusive UK live coverage on Sky Sports since 2006

- Wimbledon non-finals play — live coverage on BBC

- All other matches in Rugby World Cup finals — all 2015 matches will be shown live on ITV or ITV4

- The Open — live on BBC until 2016

- The Ryder Cup — exclusive UK live coverage on Sky Sports since 1995

- Cricket World Cup — shown on Sky Sports since 1992, every match live since 2003

- Commonwealth Games — live on BBC

- World Athletics Championships — live coverage on BBC until at least 2017

- Six Nations matches involving home countries — live coverage on BBC until at least 2017

As you can probably gather, this is a subject on which the great man feels rightly passionate. How could it be any other way since he’s worked for the BBC since 1961? ‘It’s been a large part of my life and I have enjoyed every minute of it and it seems to be really sad that it’s all coming to an end largely because of money,’ he said.

‘But this is the way of the world, I suppose. I never thought the Masters would be taken away from the BBC, for example, or rather the rights split with Sky. Augusta don’t have a money tree, rather a money orchard, but you get one or two new people on a committee who see this carrot dangled in front of them, and I guess that’s the same with the R&A.

‘But I’m not sure the R&A balance the books in the best way. They’re very generous to golf clubs who have parts of their course eroded by the sea and do great deeds around the world. But think about the audiences the BBC get for the Masters over Sky. It’s always five times as much. Shouldn’t the R&A take those figures into account, when participation levels in the game are falling?’ 

Negotiations between the R&A. the BBC and Sky over live rights for The Open from next year are expected to be concluded over the next fortnight. It is widely expected that coverage thereafter on the BBC will be restricted to highlights packages each evening.

Former Open Champion Tony Jacklin, who worked alongside Alliss at the BBC for many years, agrees it will be a ‘sad day’ if The Open is no longer aired live on free-to-air television. But, given the BBC’s apparent state of apathy, he can fully understand why the R&A are likely to jump ship.

At 13 years of age, Sir Nick Faldo was inspired to play golf while watching the 1971 Masters on television 

Darren Clarke is favourite to be appointed Europe’s Ryder Cup captain in mid-February 

‘It was wonderful to work for the BBC when they were fully committed to golf but they appear ready to withdraw altogether now, and so who can blame the R&A if they give the rights to Sky?’ he said. ‘The world turns, and Sky have done such a wonderful job for the European Tour and are so professional in their coverage.’

As for Alliss, he has no plans for retirement. ‘Although I’m creaking and groaning a bit these days I’m still lively from the chin upwards and still have opinions,’ he said. ‘I still enjoy it, and I’ll be at the Masters, The Open and women’s Open. I just feel so sorry for all those who have enjoyed live golf on the BBC over many years and all those millions who can’t afford Sky. Let’s hope a deal can be done that looks after these people.’

Former Open champion Tony Jacklin (right, with Alliss) also believes it will be a 'sad day' if The Open moves

 

@highlight

Peter Alliss speaks of 'sadness' at the prospect of Sky taking The Open

@highlight

Alliss says the BBC can’t compete with Sky’s superior spending power 

@highlight

The British Open could be shown on the satellite channel from 2016 

@highlight

Insiders in Abu Dhabi believe the deal will be confirmed soonBy
Lydia Warren

Sex offender: Jeffrey Epstein served 13 months in prison in 2007 for relations with teen girls

Victims of billionaire sex offender Jeffrey Epstein have won the right to see the negotiations that led to an apparently lenient plea deal that saw him avoid federal prosecution.

An appeals court ruled that the two victims, known only as Jane Doe 1 and 2, can soon view the documents - as their attorneys ask whether Epstein's wealth and connections affected his sentence.

Epstein, 61, had counted numerous celebrities, 
politicians and socialites as friends, including Bill Clinton, Prince Andrew, Donald Trump and Naomi Campbell.

The financier was first arrested in 2005, after the stepmother of a 14-year-old girl told Florida police that he'd paid the girl $200 for an 'erotic massage'.

An FBI investigation led to Epstein being accused of keeping a harem of women - many of them teenagers - at his luxury homes in New York and Palm Beach, and on a private Caribbean island.

By 2008, the FBI believed it had identified at least 20 victims who might level sexual allegations against the financier in court.

But Epstein struck a plea deal with prosecutors, which saw him plead guilty to a state charge of procuring a person under the age of 18 for prostitution. The rest of the case was dropped.

He received an 18-month jail sentence, of which 13 were spent behind bars, and was put on Floridaâ€™s sex offenders register. He escaped prosecution on more serious pedophilia charges, which might have seen him jailed for life.

Scene: He allegedly paid underage girls for 'erotic massages' at his private Caribbean island, Little St James

But it also also resulted in civil 
suits being filed against Epstein, who reportedly settled claims from about two dozen young women, some as young as 14, who he allegedly paid for massages.

The latest ruling in the case was issued on Friday and orders federal authorities to disclose the correspondence that took place between Epstein's attorneys and federal prosecutors when they were negotiating the 2007 agreement, the Sun Sentinel reported.

'We're trying to figure out if Epstein used his political connections and great wealth to secure this kind of arrangement, that was unheard of, frankly, if you look at these charges,' said attorney Paul Cassell.

Court filings say that when federal prosecutors struck the non-prosecution deal with Epstein in September 2007, the victims weren't told.

'Not only did the United States neglect to confer with the victims before it entered into the agreement with Epstein, it also failed to notify them of its existence for at least nine months,' Circuit Judge William H. Pryor wrote in the decision.

Friends: Among his good friends were Bill Clinton (pictured), his wife Hillary, Donald Trump and Naomi Campbell

Now the two victims are hoping that the documents will shed light on the deal, and their attorney hopes that the deal will be invalidated and that Epstein will face a new prosecution.

They have yet to see the documents, however. The attorneys were initially told they would receive them on Monday, but they were not yet ready to be viewed.

One of Epstein's attorney's, Martin Weinberg, insisted that the plea agreement was 'reached in good faith' and that there was nothing improper about the dealings.

He said he will ask the appeal court to review their decision.

@highlight

Jeffrey Epstein was accused of paying underage girls - some as young as 14 - for 'erotic massages' at his Florida home and Caribbean island

@highlight

In 2007, he struck a secret plea deal in which he pleaded guilty to lesser charges and was sentenced to just 18 months in prison

@highlight

Epstein was friends with the Clintons, Donald Trump and Prince Andrew

@highlight

An appeals court has ruled that the victims' attorneys can view the negotiation documents that led to the deal, which they call lenient

@highlight

But his lawyers insist it was 'reached in good faith'One California lawyer counts Jamie Foxx, President Obama and Kim Kardashian among her more than 50 celebrity friends - but the bar association says that's just not true.  

Los Angeles attorney Svitlana Sangary stands accused of photoshopping herself into dozens of photos with the rich and famous, including Leonardo DiCaprio and Donald Trump.

Now the California Supreme Court is being asked to suspend Sangary's law license for six months and put her on probation for three years for using 'deceptive advertising.' 

Scroll down for video 

'Deceptive advertising': Los Angeles attorney Svitlana Sangary (left) stands accused of photoshopping herself into pictures with more than 50 celebrities, and posting the images on her law practice website. One of the pictures above, with George Clooney (Right)

'Friends' in high places: The images were still up on Sangary's website as of Thursday evening. Pictured above with actress Anne Hathaway

Punishment: The California bar association is recommending that Sangary's law license be suspended for six months, and that she be put on probation for three years. Pictured above with Donald Trump 

Business: According to her website, Sangary practices deals in business, real estate, foreclosure, insurance, employment and personal injury litigation 

State Bar Court Judge Donald F Miles says the photos posted on Sangary's law practice website 'were created by taking original celebrity photos and then overlaying (Sangary’s) image in order to make it appear as though (Sangary) was in the presence of that celebrity'.

In some of the photos, Sangary even uses the same picture of herself.

When confronted about the pictures two years ago, Sangary didn't even trouble herself to take the photos down from the site. They still appeared there Thursday, under a tab titled 'publicity'.

In fact, Miles says Sangary responded to the charges in a '16-page soliloquy with little to no rational connection to the charges at hand'. 

In one particularly strange excerpt, Sangary goes on a tangent about Natalie Portman's performance in the 2010 ballet-drama 'Black Swan'

The passage reads: 'Also, with regard to false statements and misleading advertisement, none other than Natalie Portman comes to mind. The online media extensively covers the controversy surrounding Natalie Portman’s performance in the film Black Swan. The ballet dancer who performed in the Black Swan, Sarah Lane, has come forward to revel [sic] a ‘cover-up’ and says that Natalie Portman’s head was superimposed on to Sarah Lane’s body, and that Natalie Portman lied.' 

She also includes an email from President Obama in the response, in which he allegedly asks her to donate to the Democratic party.

The court is recommending that Sangary's law license be suspended for six months, and she be put on probation for three years. 

That decision ultimately lies with the California Supreme Court, and Sangary has 30 days to respond. 

Legends: After being confronted about the images two years ago, Sangary refused to take the photos down. Pictured above with deceased actor James Gandolfini 

Politicians: She wrote a 16-page response to the allegations in which she goes off on several strange tangents, including one passage about Natalie Portmans' acting in the 2010 film Black Swan. Pictured above with President Obama. 

Final say: The decision whether to suspend Sangary's law license is up to the California Supreme Court. Pictured above with Hillary CLinton

 

@highlight

The California Bar Association says attorney Svitlana Sangary photoshopped herself into more than 50 pictures with celebrities

@highlight

They are recommending Sangary's law license be suspended for six months, and that she be placed on a three year probation  President Barack Obama saluted a pair of United States Marines on Tuesday while holding what appeared to be a styrofoam cup in his saluting hand, a breach of military regulations that won't win him fans among veterans and servicemen.

Obama is known for drinking tea, not coffee, when he travels, especially before delivering speeches. 

His quasi-saluting gesture was an instant embarrassment for the White House, and not because his environmentally taboo drinkware clashed with the green-policy speech he was on his way to deliver at a UN Climate Summit.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO 

Americans weren't amused after the White House posted a short video clip showing the commander-in-chief casually saluting a pair of US Marines while holding a drink

Americans, including those who have served in uniform, reacted harshly on Twitter after Obama's salute faux pas

JUDGMENT: With no news photographers catching the embarrassing moment, some are scratching their heads about why the White House published the video clip on its own

Saluting military personnel is something presidents are expected to do since they're at the top of the Pentagon's chain of command. 

It's customary for a commander-in-chief to salute uniformed servicemen and women who salute him first as a sign of respect. 

President Ronald Reagan reportedly began the tradition and future presidents, both Republicans and Democrats, followed suit. 

But Obama's casual approach to the moment as he left his Marine One chopper at a helipad in New York City came at a time when he had just ordered U.S. fighter planes to fly perilous missions in the skies over Syria.

Twitter predictably erupted, with most commenters expressing outrage and a few insisting that it wasn't a major mistake.

Arriving: Marine One lands in New York City (above) as President Obama heads to deliver remarks at the United Nations Climate Summit

Keynote:President Obama (above) called on everyone in the international community to cut their carbon pollution during his speech

Real estate mogul and long-time Obama critic Donald Trump weighed in on the controversy, proclaiming the president's coffee cup salute 'terrible' in response to a tweet from one of his followers.  

The 'Customs and Courtesies' manual of the U.S. Marine Corps advises that there are circumstances in which it's not appropriate to render a salute.

One of them is when military personnel are 'carrying articles with both hands or being otherwise so occupied as to make saluting impractical.'

A Yahoo News reporter mocked the president, speculating on the Starbucks size of his salute

His two cents: In response to a tweet from one of his followers about the coffee cup salute, Donald Trump proclaimed Obama's faux pas 'terrible!' 

U.S. Army Field Manual: 

'Raise the right hand sharply, fingers and thumb extended and joined, palm facing down, and ... touch the tip of the right forefinger to the forehead near and slightly to the right of the right eyebrow.'

U.S. Marine 'Customs and Courtesies'

'In some situations, the salute is not appropriate. In general, do not salute when ... carrying articles with both hands or being otherwise so occupied as to make saluting impractical.'

 

The U.S. Army Field Manual describes the correct procedure for rendering a salute. 

It instructs that when 'uncovered' – that is, not wearing a cap – one should 'touch the tip of the right forefinger to the forehead near and slightly to the right of the right eyebrow.'

During Tuesday's salute, Obama's cup was the only thing that made contact with his head.

Obama made saluting news once before, in 2013, when he forgot to salute a Marine guarding his chopper before he bounded up the stairs to board it.

Instead of sticking his head out the door and saluting, Obama returned all the way to ground level – and shook the young man's hand instead.

No wire photographers captured pictures of the exact moment when the president executed his unconventional tea cup maneuver on Tuesday, but online fury built after the White House itself posted a short video clip of it on its Instagram page.

'What's worse?' one Twitter user asked: 'that Obama didn't put down his coffee cup before saluting, or that the WH thought it was smart to post it?' 

 

 

@highlight

President was exiting his Marine One helicopter after landing in New York City for speeches about global warming and fighting ISIS in Syria

@highlight

Commander-in-chief is a military title that entitles Obama to a salute, and he's expected to return the gesture

@highlight

On Tuesday he saluted two uniformed US Marines while holding a cup in his hand, a breach that won't win him fans among veterans or servicemen

@highlight

Twitter erupted with the president's indignant detractors

@highlight

The White House put a short video of his arrival in New York on its own Instagram page, creating a public gaffe that no photographer had shown They're both blessed with an outrageous ginger tuft of hair and a cold beady stare, so it's no wonder people think this canary and billionaire business tycoon Donald Trump are birds of a feather.

The colourful lookalike for the property magnate turned TV star was spotted by nature photographer Sandy Wiskeman as it perched on a branch in a park in New Jersey.

The bird, which is a Gloster Canary, was easy to spot among leaves thanks to its unusual crown of feathers, which almost appears toupee-like.

Birds of a feather: The unique Gloster Canary bears a striking resemblance to the American business tycoon thanks to its beady eyes and ginger head feathers

The read deal: Trump's whispy golden crown has become a trademark feature of the billionaire's appearance on the US version of the Apprentice

But it wasn't until later that the photographer realised that odd looking bird reminded her of a familiar face.

The swept back style of its feathers is almost identical to Donald Trump's famoulsy manipulated mane.

The 67-year-old star of the US Apprentice, who is said to be worth $5bn, is known for trying to maintain an even covering on his head by back-combing his thinning hair, often with disastrous results.

One of Trumps most memorable hair-raising moments came when he visited the Scottish Highlands to announce plans to build a golf course on the Isle of Lewis.

A highlight of the controversial press trip was the businessman's constant battle to keep his hair under control in the bracing northern winds.

Thankfully, Trump's canary companion doesn't have to worry about its headgear being disturbed by such heavy weather.

The Gloster Canary is a popular choice of pet which is kept for its beautiful song as well as its stylish crest.

Hair raising: Trump is known for trying to maintain an even covering of hair on his head. His thinning crown struggled against winds of Scotland when he announced the development of a golf course there in 2008, above.

@highlight

The Gloster Canary was spotted by nature photographer Sandy Wiskeman

@highlight

She snapped the bird sitting on a branch in New Jersey

@highlight

The ginger crest makes it a hilarious lookalike for tycoon TrumpA Democratic district attorney who has pursued Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker over alleged campaign finance violations told a fellow prosecutor that his crying wife, a union official, drove him to hunt the governor and his conservative allies because of his anti-union laws feared by organized labor.

The explosive revelation came Tuesday as lawyers for Milwaukee DA John Chisholm began two days of oral arguments in a Chicago courtroom over earlier rulings that effectively ended his wide-ranging investigation.

The investigation aimed to show that conservative groups were illegally working hand-in-hand with Walker's office when they ran 'issue ads' pressing the case that public employee unions should face reforms. Such arrangements, attorneys say, are common on both sides of the political aisle – including President Barack Obama's longstanding coordination with Priorities USA Action and other 'super PACs.'

Leaders of virtually every conservative political nonprofit in the Badger State, 29 in all, have found themselves swept up in Chisholm's criminal probe as they were hit with pre-dawn raids that seized their computers, cell phones, email records – and even a child's iPad.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO 

Democratic District Attorney John Chisholm (right) pursued associates of Wisconsin Republican Gov. Scott Walker (left) with a five-year criminal investigation on charges that have been thrown out of state and federal courtrooms

in 2011 Wisconsin lawmakers passed Walker-driven legislation that was the most sweeping anti-union law in US history, provoking protests and marches by organized labor in the state Capitol

Armed police kept many of them from contacting their lawyers or corralling their children in some cases while they executed searches initiated by Chisholm over a period of a year and a half.

Republicans have accused Chisholm of using heavy-handed tactics, furthered by police using floodlights to illuminate suburban homes as flashing squad cars jammed driveways and cul-de-sacs.

None of the targets of the searches were ever convicted of any crime, and few were charged.

Since Chisholm prosecuted an unrelated 2009 embezzlement case that Walker's office urged him to take up when he was a county executive, conservatives have wondered why the DA expanded the probe into what Wisconsin insiders call a 'John Doe' investigation – ensnaring dozens of Walker's aides and allies once he became governor in 2010.

The John Doe proceeding, peculiar to Wisconsin, allowed Chisholm to enforce a gag order demanding complete secrecy from his targets and potential witnesses, prohibiting them from discussing the case, defending themselves in public or firing back when damaging documents were leaked to the press.

Chisholm has persisted despite defeats in every court that has weighed in.

Writing for the Legal Newsline, an American Media Institute investigator chronicled an interview with an unnamed Chisholm confidant – formerly a fellow prosecutor – to whom he explained his reasons.

Chilsolm's wife Colleen, he said, repeatedly broke down in tears and insisted he go after the governor following the passage of a 2011 budget law that trimmed the sails of the state's powerful public employee unions.

Mrs. Chisholm, a teacher, represented a union as her school's designated shop steward. Legal Newswire reported that she feared what would become one of the biggest reversals of labor power in American history.

His wife 'frequently cried when discussing the topic of the union disbanding and the effect it would have on the people involved … She took it personally,' Mr. Chisholm reportedly told his close associate, who has not come forward because he fears retaliation in the rough-and-tumble atmosphere of Wisconsin union politics.

Walker's law drew riotous protests from liberal groups organized by union labor, leading to months of marches and sit-ins at the state Capitol. Angry picketers harassed Walker in front of his home and some of the governor's supporters received death threats.

The activists were angry at Walker because their unions were to be required, for the first time, to contribute to employees' pensions and health insurance plans. The law also forbade them from collectively bargaining for benefits the went beyond wages.

Walker survived a recall effort in 2012, winning more votes than he had in his original 2012 election and fueling conservatives' hopes that organized labor's day in the sun had passed

Judge Rudolph Randa slapped down Chisholm's attempts to criminalize conservatives' political ads, saying that they could work with Walker's office as long as they weren't advocating for any candidates

The American Media Institute's source said Chisholm told him 'he felt that it was his personal duty to stop Walker from treating people like this.'

Mrs. Chisholm, like hundreds of teachers, joined in the protests. So did many members of her husband's ostensibly impartial staff, according to the source.

Chisholm's criminal probe widened 18 times, court records show. But ultimately judges at the state and federal level slapped him down and brought his investigation to a screeching halt.

U.S. District Court Judge Rudolph Randa ruled in May that the investigation ran afoul of Wisconsin law and the U.S. Constitution since it hinged on the idea that right-wing activists were illegally coordinating their ads with the governor's office.

That legal theory, Randa wrote, was 'simply wrong.'

Governments, he ruled, can only regulate issue ads run by outside groups if they specifically advocate for or against a candidate by name, offering 'express advocacy' or its 'functional equivalent.'

Referring to the heavy-handed raids, Randa vented that 'attempts to purify the public square lead to … the Guillotine and the Gulag.'

Chaos: Walker's law restricting public sector unions threatens to become a blueprint for other states' conservative activists, worrying labor leaders who have never seen their power diminished so quickly

Once and future president? Walker is touted as a possible 2016 White House contender; the kind of alleged political coordination with outside issue groups that drove the investigation against him reached its high point during President Barack Obama's two successful elections

Worse, he determined that Chisholm's prosecution team had  no 'reasonable expectation of obtaining a valid conviction.'

On Tuesday and Wednesday, the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago heard oral arguments as Chisholm sought to overturn the ruling. 

American Media Institute president Richard Miniter, whose organization commissioned the story, told MailOnline that Chisholm's actions would be equally improper if he were a Republican.

'Abuses of the public trust are exactly what journalists should be investigating, no matter which party is to blame,' he said. 

'We launched this three-month investigation and hired a former New York Times Supreme Court correspondent to run it because it seemed like Chisholm was using his office to criminalize ordinary political activity,' Miniter explained.

'He told colleagues that his wife's tears motivated him to criminally investigate a sitting governor. The courts found that he had no legal basis. That should embarrass even the unions.'

Cornell Law School professor William A. Jacobson called Tuesday's revelations 'chilling.' 

'To date,' he said, 'no one has been able to explain why District Attorney John Chisholm has gone to the lengths he has gone to try to find criminal conduct that could taint Governor Walker. If this new information is accurate, now we know the motivation, and there needs to be an investigation of the investigators.'

@highlight

Milwaukee DA John Chisholm pursued Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's staff and 29 conservative nonprofits for  years

@highlight

Walker-backed laws curbing unions' power provoked a labor-led 2012 recall effort that narrowly failed

@highlight

Chisholm widened his investigation 18 times as the controversy raged, hunting Walker's allies with pre-dawn suburban raids

@highlight

Armed police seized computers, phones, the governor's private emails with donors – including Donald Trump – and even a child's iPad.

@highlight

Chisholm told a fellow prosecutor that he was motivated by weeping complaints from his wife, a schoolteacher and labor shop steward whose union stood to lose if Walker's policies prevailed. Jeb Bush, the newest front-runner among Republicans seeking their party's 2016 presidential nomination, smoked marijuana in high school – an activity he describes as 'pretty common' at the tony Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts.

He told The Boston Globe in an interview published ahead of Sunday's edition that 'I drank alcohol and I smoked marijuana when I was at Andover.'

Both activities were strictly forbidden at the time – and still are – and could have gotten him expelled.

But 'it was pretty common,' he insisted.

Bush, once a 6-foot, 4-inch high school senior, was also seen as a bully by some of his classmates, notably one who weighed less than 100 pounds. Another said he was 'a cigarette smoker and "toker".'

Reactions to the news were varied. A spokesman for potential Republican presidential challenger Donald Trump told Daily Mail Online that 'Jeb put out the least of his substance issues today.' 

Scroll down for video 

UP IN SMOKE: Jeb Bush (2nd from right, in the background) was 17 when this photo was taken as his father the future presdient conceded the Texas governor's race to future vice presidential nominee Lloyd Bentsen

GETS YOU RIGHT HERE: Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor and a front-runner for the Republican presidential nomination, experimented with marijuana at his prep school in Massachusetts

'THAT WAS THE POINT': Barack Obama told an interviewer in 2008 that he definitely inhaled when he smoked pot, and reminisced about his pothead friends, the infamous 'Choom Gang

News reports of Bush's past pot smoking date back to at least 1998, but his frank admission is new.

It's common for presidential hopefuls to 'dump' unflattering news about themselves early in election cycles, in the hope that it will be considered 'old news' by the time heir opponents gear up opposition-research activities.

The St. Petersburg Times in Bush's home state of Florida profiled him in October 1998 when he was the state's commerce secretary.

'The academics and the competitiveness' at Andover 'jolted him,' the Times reported. 'He nearly flunked his first year.'

'He began to experiment with drugs, smoking marijuana on more than one occasion and drinking alcohol.'

Bush all but admitted the reporting was spot-on at the time. 

'I still adhere to the belief that there should be a statute of limitations on behavior,' he said. 'There's got to be some tolerance for our imperfections. I'm imperfect. I was more imperfect when I was young.'

Five years later, when he was nearing the end of his first term as Florida's governor, the Washington Post treated Bush's marijuana-smoking days as anything but a bombshell.

'Jeb struggled with his course work' at Andover, the Post reported in February 2003. He 'missed Texas and experimented with marijuana.'

Several of the potential 2016 Republican pesidential candidates have admitted smoking pot in the past:

Aside from Jeb Bush, there are at least four.

Squeaky-clean moral crusader Rick Santorum, a former Senator from Pennsylvania, awkwardly admitted in 2011 that 'when I was in college ... I smoked pot and that was something that I did when I was in college … It was something that I’m not proud of, but I did.'

'I did and I admitted it,' Santorum added. 'I would encourage people not to do so. It was not all it’s made up to be.'

Newt Gingrich said in 1995 when he was Speaker of the House that smoking pot 'was a sign we were alive and in graduate school in that era.'

Former New York Governor George Pataki put his pot experimentation on the record during his first campaign for the office in 1994. 

And Sarah Palin, the GOP's vice presidential nominee in 2008, told the Anchorage Daily News two years earlier during her Alaska governorship that she smoked pot in her pre-politics days.

'I can't claim a Bill Clinton and say that I never inhaled,' she said.

College friends of Kentucky Senator Rand Paul have said he joined them in the occasional toke, but he hasn't admitted it.

'Randy smoked pot, [and] he made fun of Baptists,' a former cohort from Paul's Baylor University secret society, the NoZe Brotherhood, said in 2010.

Former Preident George H.W. Bush, Jeb's father, wrote in 1971 that 'Jebby is going to need some help I am sure.'

'He is a free and independent spirit and I don't want him to get totally out of touch with the family.' 

The Globe interviewed Peter Tibbetts, a Bush contemporary at Andover,who recalled that he had helped Bush bully another student before he himself was kicked out of school for doing drugs.

'Their target was a short classmate whom they taunted, and then sewed his pajama bottoms so that they were impossible to put on,' the Globe reports. 

Tibbetts said he is remorseful for participating in making 'cruel' sport of the smaller kid. 

Bush said he doesn't remember it that way.

'I don’t believe that is true,” he said, referring to others' accounts of his alleged bullying. 

'It was 44 years ago and it is not possible for me to remember.' 

But his classmates remember.

'Jeb Bush was large, physically imposing, and traveled in a crowd that was I guess somewhat threatening to an outsider like myself,' former dormmate Gregg Hamilton said. 

'I saw him as a cigarette smoker and "toker" and someone that was comfortable being in charge of a group. I was small physically, and small at an all-male boarding school [that], at that time, was a bit of a hostile environment for the kids.'

Hamilton recalled the dor, Pemberton Cottage, as a 'sort of a "Lord of the Flies" situation, at least as I saw it.' 

Bush has talked about his Andover years before, casting himself in one Miami Herald interview as 'a cynical little turd at a cynical school.'

'It was a difficult time for me,' he told the Herald. 'I was 14 when I left Houston to go to Andover and it was a very cynical time. The school for all sorts of reasons in the early 70s was cynical, not the same way it is now. It was a very Darwinian place.'

Despite the national news a politician with TNC in his history makes, it's nothing new.

President Barack Obama famously smoked weed in his youth as part of a group of friends he affectionately called the 'Choom Gang.'

Bill Clinton, asked about his pot-smoking past during the 1992 presdiential campaign, admitted that 'when I was in England, I experimented with marijuana a time or two, and I didn’t like it. I didn’t inhale and never tried it again.'

The late Christopher Hitchens, who attended Oxford University with Clinton during the future president's Rhodes Scholar year, claimed later that Clinton was partial to pot brownies instead. 

MORE TO COME: A spokesman for Donald Trump said Friday that Jeb Bush had 'put out the least of his substance issues'

THE  BIRTH OF PRESIDENTIAL BONG CHIC: Bill Clinton claimed in 1992 that he smoked pot but 'didn't inhale'

TWITTER: Fox News 'Red Eye' host Andy Levy sees hypocrisy in Bush's positions as a drug warrior

IMAGE: Conservative media figure AJ Delgado says the admission will help Bush more than it will hurt him

Obama, by contrast, made no bones about enjoying a good toke.

'When I was a kid, I inhaled, frequently,' he said in 2008. 'That was the point.'

President George W. Bush, Jeb's older brother, reportedly experimented with cocaine during his youth.

He never explicitly admitted smoking marijuana, although he hinted at it in discussions with his biographer Douglas Wead.

'I wouldn't answer the marijuana questions,' the 43rd president recalled. 'You know why? Because I don't want some little kid doing what I tried.'

President John F. Kennedy tried marijuana for chronic back pain, according to the book 'John F. Kennedy: A Biography,' which drew its account from former Washington Post executive Jim Truitt.

'On the evening of July 16, 1962, according to Jim Truitt, Kennedy and Mary Meyer smoked marijuana together.'

Meyer was reportedly one of Kennedy's mistresses.

'It was pretty common,' Jeb Bush said of his pot-smoking days in prep school

FIELDS OF DREAMS: James Madison, revered as the 'Father of the Constitution,' credited some of his ideas to mental clarity brought on by smoking marijuana

'The president smoked three of the six joints Mary brought to him,' according to the book. 'At first he felt no effects. Then he closed his eyes and refused a fourth joint. "Suppose the Russians did something now," he said.'

Several of America's founding fathers smoked the drug, according to the pot-advocacy magazine High Times.

In the late eighteenth and early ninetenth centuries, the hemp plant that yields marijuana was grown widely in the New World for non-recreational purposes including fibers and oil.

George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and James Madison all cultivated hemp.

Madison, revered as the 'Father of the Constitution,' credited some of his ideas to mental clarity brought on by smoking hemp.

Presidents Zachary Taylor and Andrew Jackson both wrote letters that mentioned smoking marijuana with American troops during their time in battle.

James Monroe openly smoked hashish during his years as U.S. Ambassador to France and, according to one biographer, kept up the habit until he died at age 73.

And Thomas Jefferson, High Times claims, smuggled hemp seeds from China that were 'known for their potency.'

@highlight

'It was pretty common,' the GOP presidential front-runner said

@highlight

A spokesman for potential presidential challenger Donald Trump responded that 'Jeb put out the least of his substance issues today' 

@highlight

Classmates at his posh Massachusetts prep school also saw Bush as a bully; one recalled a 'Lord of the Flies' atmosphere in their shared dorm

@highlight

Former pot smokers no longer raise eyebrows in presidential election circles after Barack Obama's famous 'choom gang' admissions

@highlight

Bill Clinton broached the subject, improbably insisting that he tried marijuana but 'didn't inhale' (He reportedly preferred pot brownies)

@highlight

Several of America's founding fathers smoked pot, including James Madison and James Monroe, and many others farmed hemp

@highlight

Thomas Jefferson is said to have smuggled hashish seeds into the USBy
David Martosko, U.s. Political Editor

PUBLISHED:
  
  
      16:13 EST, 6 March 2014
    
  

 | 
  UPDATED:
  
  
      09:11 EST, 7 March 2014

Business tycoon Donald Trump said Thursday that the United States is 'becoming a third-world country,' declared the nation's true unemployment rate is 'probably 21 or 22 percent,' and warned that Barack Obama's approval ratings were approaching the malaise of 'the late, great Jimmy Carter.'

Carter, the 39th U.S. president, is very much alive.

The gaffe took the luster off of an otherwise energetic presentation at the Conservative Political Action Conference near Washington, D.C., one that was lacking any hint that Trump might run for president in 2016.

Railing against federal tax and other economic mandates that will trigger in the years after President Barack Obama leaves office, Trump said he predictions of 'economic catastrophe' in 2017 and 2018 are flying through the business community.

'Whoever's president [then], good luck!' he exclaimed. You're going to have to be very smart. You're going to have to be very sharp.'

Scroll down for video

A frustrated Donald Trump said he's anticipating economic calamities right after President Barack Obama leaves office, and said the U.S. is 'becoming a Third World country'

Still kicking: Rumors of Jimmy Carter assuming 'late, great' status, as Trump referred to him Thursday, are greatly exaggerated

'Our country is in serious, serious trouble,' Trump lamented. 'We owe $17 trillion – our debt. How do you pay off $17 trillion? ... We have deficits that no one can even comprehend.'

Obama, he insisted, is 'so weak and so pathetic' that China's leaders know they can devalue their currency without any consequences.

'They believe that they can get away with it,' Trump said. 'And believe me, they're taking our jobs, and they're taking them big-league .... They have no respect for our leader.'

Unemployment, Trump told thousands gathered at the Gaylord National Resort and Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland, is 'probably 21 or 22 percent' in 'real numbers.'

'When you give up looking for a job, it's like they consider you employed,' he complained.

The U.S. Department of Labor said in January that the nation's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate stood at 6.7 percent. But the so-called 'U-6' unemployment measure, which counts short-term workers and those who have taken themselves out of the labor force,' is early twice as high – 13.1 per cent.

MailOnline couldn't find any economic research suggesting a 21 or 22 per cent unemployment rate in the U.S.

Trump could get into the presidential race in 2016, but seemed to suggest he'll sit it out

Rough life: Trump flew to Washington on Thursday after opening the new Tiger Woods Villa World Golf Championships at his Trump National Doral Golf Course in Florida

Trump said he sees 'so little leadership from the White House,' topped off with a crumbling infrastructure – airports, roads and bridges – that slows down business entrepreneurs

'We're becoming a third-world country,' he complained.

After noting briefly that the Obamacare law 'has to be changed – has to be!' Trump warned conservatives that siding with advocates of immigration reform will bring Election Day legitimacy to a slew of new Democratic Party voters.

'Every one of those votes goes to the 
Democrats.... you will not get any of those votes no matter what you do,
 no matter how nice you are, no matter how soft you are,' he said.

Coming down on the side of closed-border hawks, an exasperated Trump threw up his hands.

'We're either a country or we're not. We either have borders or we don't,' he told an appreciative crowd.

'I mean, you have a border, you have a country, and if you don't have a border, what are we? Uh, uh, uh – nothing.'

Trump will appear at an April 12 summit in New Hampshire alongside Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, Utah Sen. Mike Lee, former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee; Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Minnesota Rep. Marsha Blackburn.

@highlight

Trump referred to Obama's tanking approval ratings as nearing the lows of 'the late, great Jimmy Carter'

@highlight

He hinted that he might sit out the 2016 presidential race

@highlight

Trump's unemployment figures are far higher than those of government or academic economists

@highlight

Relaxing the Republican Party platform on immigration, he warned, would bring in millions of new voters and 'you will not get any of those votes no matter what you do'

@highlight

'The Donald' spoke at the 2014 Conservative Political Action Conference near Washington, D.C., entertaining thousands of right-wing partisansPhil Mickelson won Scottish Open before winning The Open in 2013

Justin Rose was victorious at Congressional in his last outing

Rose will face likes of Rory McIlroy, Lee Westwood and Luke Donald at Castle Stuart

By
Matt Lawless

Follow @@mattylawless

Justin Rose hopes to emulate Phil Mickelson's success last year as he looks ahead to next week's Open at Hoylake.

Mickelson memorably lifted the Claret Jug at Muirfield, just one week after his victory at the Scottish Open.

Rose believes the confidence gained from that triumph at Castle Stuart inspired the American to win his fifth major championship.

High hopes: Justin Rose hopes to land the Scottish Open this week and then The Open next week

At the double: Phil Mickelson triumphed at the Scottish Open in 2013 before going on to win The Open (R)

Now the 2013 US Open winner, who was victorious in his last outing a fortnight ago at Congressional, wants to repeat Mickelson's back-to-back heroics as he prepares to take on a tough field in Aberdeen this Thursday before heading to the Royal Liverpool links course.

'I looked to what Phil Mickelson did last year,' Rose told Sky Sports News.

'He wouldn’t have been the classic Open pick but the confidence he would have gained from winning the Scottish Open and then carrying it to Muirfield really caught my eye.

'I took inspiration from Phil’s schedule from winning there and going on to win the Open.'

All smiles: Rose was victorious at Congressional two weeks ago and wants to keep that winning habit going over the coming days as he approaches The Open at Hoylake

Mickelson will be at Castle Stuart to defend his title with Rose also up against the likes of Ian Poulter, Rickie Fowler, Lee Westwood, Luke Donald and Rory McIlroy.

'It is a strong field that's been assembled,' he added.

'I've tried to play links courses and playing a tournament links course a week before the Open can only be good for how you start to see shots and you get your touch and shot selection under pressure.'

Practice range: Justin Rose took to the tee at Trump Scotland in preparation for the Scottish Open on Thursday

Three's a crowd: Rose played nine holes at Trump Scotland on Tuesday with Swede Johan Carlsson (R) and Scotland's Stephen Gallacher

Rose, meanwhile, was joined by Swede Johan Carlsson and Scotland's Stephen Gallacher as the trio treated golf fans to a masterclass at Trump Scotland to celebrate the first anniversary of Taylor Made's SLDR driver.

The Englishman, 33, played nine-holes to complete his preparation for Castle Stuart where he tee-off on Thursday alongside Gallacher and compatriot Westwood.

@highlight

Phil Mickelson won Scottish Open before winning The Open in 2013

@highlight

Justin Rose was victorious at Congressional in his last outing

@highlight

Rose will face likes of Rory McIlroy, Lee Westwood and Luke Donald at Castle StuartBy
Associated Press

Donald Trump has a message for the two Atlantic City casinos that still bear his name, five years after he gave up anything to do with running them: You're fired.

The real estate mogul and reality TV star, who presided over a casino empire in the glory days of Atlantic City, filed a lawsuit on Tuesday demanding that his name be stripped from the remaining two.

He told The Associated Press he sued Trump Entertainment Resorts, a descendant of a corporate entity he once controlled, because it has allowed its two Atlantic City casinos, the Trump Plaza and the Trump Taj Mahal, to fall into disrepair, tarnishing his personal brand and confusing customers.

Donald Trump has sued Trump Entertainment Resorts, seeking to force the company to remove his name from its two Atlantic City casinos, Trump Plaza and the Trump Taj Mahal

Trump claims to have been disconnected from business in Atlantic city for several years and that the name is misleading

'I want it off both of them,' Trump said in an interview Tuesday evening. 'I've been away from Atlantic City for many years. People think we operate (the company), and we don't. It's not us. It's not me.'

It was the latest manifestation of Atlantic City's struggles: One casino closed in January, two others are slated to do so by next month and another is up for a bankruptcy auction on Thursday and will shut down if a buyer doesn't materialize.

Trump's lawsuit, filed in state Superior Court in Atlantic County, seeks a court order directing Trump Entertainment Resorts to immediately cure what it terms a breach of Trump's licensing agreement with the company or remove his name from the casinos and the company itself.

'Since Mr. Trump left Atlantic City many years ago, the license entities have allowed the casino properties to fall into an utter state of disrepair and have otherwise failed to operate and manage the casino properties in accordance with the high standards of quality and luxury required under the license agreement,' Trump wrote in his lawsuit, filed in the name of Trump AC Casino Marks LLC. 'The Trump name ... has become synonymous with the highest levels of quality, luxury, prestige and success.'

Trump Entertainment Resorts CEO Robert Griffin declined to comment on the lawsuit.

Trump appears particularly vexed at the impending closing of Trump Plaza on Sept. 16.

In the lawsuit, he asserts Trump Plaza failed two quality review tests carried out by a third-party consulting firm, one in 2012 and the other three weeks ago.

Trump alleges the company had allowed the casinos to fall into disrepair and tarnished the real estate mogul's personal brand

Days later, Trump asserts, the company
 sent letters to its employees and announced it would close Trump Plaza 
in September without notifying him.

'Not
 only does the issuance of these WARN notices further harm the Trump 
name and brand, but it also underscores the (company's) inability to 
remedy the appalling conditions that gave rise to the defaults under the
 licensing agreement in the first place,' the lawsuit says.

Trump said the casinos fail to meet industry standards regarding hotel services, food and beverage operations and overall cleanliness, which he said guests had been complaining about for years.

Trump does not run or control Trump Entertainment Resorts, which was formed after the Trump casino empire emerged from the second of its three bankruptcies.

But he retains a 10 percent stake, which enables the company to use his name for licensing purposes.

Trump told the AP he has not considered whether to divest his remaining ownership stake in the company.

@highlight

Claims hotels and casinos have fallen into disrepair

@highlight

Trump says he has not been connected to the companies in several years

@highlight

Trump Entertainment Resorts CEO Robert Griffin declined to comment on the lawsuitTransgender beauty contestant who caused international headlines was a boy called Walter Page Talackova

Spoke publicly about the saga in an exclusive interview with ABC journalist Barbara Walters

Classmate says: 'It wasn't like she looked like a boy, but acted like a girl. She very much looked like a female'

PUBLISHED:

06:17 EST, 6 April 2012


| 

UPDATED:

15:59 EST, 6 April 2012

The first picture of the transsexual beauty queen who made international headlines after her dismissal and subsequent reinstatement from Miss Universe Canada has emerged - and she's a 13-year-old boy called Walter.

Pictured with a blonde bob as a Grade 8 student at Vancouver's Killarney secondary school, Jenna Talackova, 23, was then known as Walter Page Talackova.

Jenna, who learned this week she is now eligible to compete in the Miss Universe Canada pageant after originally being thrown out last month for being born a boy, made international headlines after it was revealed she lied about her natural gender on her application form.

Scroll down for video

Transgender Miss Universe Canada contestant Jenna Talackova as Grade eight student Walter Page Talackova

Miss Talackova will be interviewed about the saga by veteran TV journalist Barbara Walters, set to be broadcast on ABC in the US on Monday

Ms Talackova talked about the saga in an exclusive interview with ABC journalist Barbara Walters and said her mother still calls her Walter.

In the interview, which will be aired on ABC's 20/20 tonight, she said: 'As soon as I was conscious, I just always
knew that I was not what they were saying.  It wasn’t right. I thought 
that I was in the wrong body.'

Ms Talackova was thrown out of the 
pageant, owned by billionaire Donald Trump, after organisers learned she
had undergone surgery to become a woman. He was later criticized for having the 'natural born female' rule at all.

She revealed to Barbara Walters that though the gender 
reassignment surgery at the age of 19 and subsequent hormone treatments were intense and painful, it was ultimately 'rewarding'.

'It was terribly painful, but seeing something on your body for that 
long and not being able to look at myself in the mirror because I 
couldn’t stand seeing the other part, it was actually very rewarding, 
too,' she said.

First interview: Jenna Talackova talks to Barbara Walters on tonight's 20/20 about her transgender surgery and always feeling different

Confused: Jenna said that even when she was a young boy called Walter, she felt like she was in the wrong body

The Trump organization later released a statement saying that pageant 
rules had 'been modernized to ensure this type of issue does not occur 
again'.

Jenna now wants to use her situation to help others: 'I feel like the universe, the creator just put me in this position as 
an advocate. And now it’s like this, and I’ll take that 
position. 

'If it’s helping anybody else, my story and my actions, then I
feel great about it.'

Her mother told Barbara that she had always wanted a daughter, but when Jenna was born she thought, 'Ok that's it I guess. I have four boys. But now I have four sons and a daughter.'

Classmates recalled how Jenna's looks and behaviour sparked intrigue about her gender even back in their high school days. With a slender frame and effeminate mannerisms, she stuck out.

'It was very obvious,' Teruko Walker told The Vancouver Sun, recalling her looks and behaviour when she was in her early teens.

'It wasn't like she looked like a boy, but acted like a girl. She very much looked like a female,' said Walker, who was in Grade 11 at the high school at the time.

Acceptance: Jenna Talackova's mother said she always wanted a daughter after having having four boys but said now she has three sons and one daughter

She has been a veteran beauty pageant competitor since undergoing sexual reassignment surgery at the age of 19 and has competed in a Miss Universe competition before.

Ms Talackova's story sparked outrage on social networking sites including Twitter after people claimed the organisation was being discriminatory.

More than 20,000 people signed a virtual petition on Change.org demanding that she be re-instated.

She had already reached the finals of the Miss Vancouver pageant before officials stepped in and banned her from the competition.

The only requirement stated on the Miss Universe Canada website is that to enter, women must be a Canadian citizen and between the ages of 18 and 27.

The application form makes no mention of rules regarding sexual reassignment surgery.

Ms Talackova's case was taken on by celebrity lawyer Gloria Allred who is famous for representing clients including a string of Tiger Woods' ex-lovers and Nicole Brown Simpson's family during the O.J. Simpsopn trial.

In a YouTube video interview, Ms Talackova said she knew she was a female at the age of four and began hormone therapy ten years later.

'I regard myself as a woman with a history,' Ms Talackova says, winking to the camera.

Transgender Miss Universe Canada finalist, Jenna Talackova, of Vancouver, was disqualified from the competition before being re-instated this week

Ms Talackova's family, who live in east Vancouver and the Northern British Columbia, have supported her throughout her transition.

Vancouver-born Talackova made it to the final with 64 other contestants before learning of the organisation's U-turn last Friday.

But she has another shot at being crowned winner of the contest, which will be announced on May 19 in Toronto next month. She could then go on and represent Canada in the international Miss Universe Pageant later this year.

Mr Trump overturned the decision to dismiss the Canadian after a wave of publicity surrounding the move.

Ms Allred claimed this week that questions should be posed to Mr Trump's organisation about the rule rather than focusing on Ms Talackova's gender, pointing to the letter 'F' for female on her passport.

video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player

@highlight

Transgender beauty contestant who caused international headlines was a boy called Walter Page Talackova

@highlight

Spoke publicly about the saga in an exclusive interview with ABC journalist Barbara Walters

@highlight

Classmate says: 'It wasn't like she looked like a boy, but acted like a girl. She very much looked like a female'After a six-month hiatus from golf over alleged cocaine and alcohol abuse, Dustin Johnson appears to be back on form.

On Sunday the 30-year-old claimed victory at the elite World Golf Championships-Cadillac Championships in Miami, telling reporters that fatherhood was behind his improved focus.

Following his win, Johnson was greeted at the 18th hole on the Trump National Doral course by his model fiancée Paulina Gretzky - daughter of former NHL great Wayne - and their son Tatum, who was born in January.

The new parents shared a passionate kiss in front of cameras, while cradling their newborn between them. Gretzky described her husband-to-be as the 'best dad' and 'best friend' she could ever wish for.

Scroll down for video 

Passionate embrace: After claiming victory at the elite World Golf Championships-Cadillac Championships in Miami on Sunday, Dustin Johnson was greeted at the 18th hole by his family

Doting dad: He was overjoyed to see his model fiancée Paulina Gretzky - daughter of former NHL great Wayne - and their son Tatum, who was born in January

Perfect match: The new parents shared a passionate kiss in front of cameras, while cradling their newborn between them

She continued to ABC News: 'He's been so supportive with me and we're just there for each other. I couldn't be happier for him.'

Talking about how fatherhood had changed his life for the better, Johnson added: 'It's hard to describe, but just from the first day he's born, your perspective on life completely changes.

'Things that were important aren't important anymore.

'It kind of makes life a lot easier I think, just because there's just one thing that's kind of all you think about. It definitely simplifies stuff.'

When Johnson announced his decision to step away from golf last July due to 'personal challenges', rumors about his lifestyle swirled, including the suggestion that he may have been suspended by the PGA Tour. 

Indeed, Golf.com reported that Johnson had failed three drug tests: one for marijuana in 2009 and two for cocaine, in 2012 and 2014.  

Johnson celebrates with Donald Trump as he holds the Gene Sarazen Cup after winning the WGC-Cadillac Championship WGC at Trump National in Doral

Career success: Johnson turned professional as a golfer in late 2007 in his early twenties 

However, the Tour - which had initially said it did not comment on rumors or speculation - released a statement saying Johnson had taken a voluntary leave of absence and had not been suspended.

And in a news conference on Sunday when if he had ever failed a Tour drugs test, Johnson replied: 'No. Thanks'.

In a candid interview with Sports Illustrated this January, Johnson revealed that alcohol was his real vice.

He said he would excessively drink and party to relieve stress, with his tipple of choice being Grey Goose, soda and lime.

In a bid to get clean, Johnson said he took time out from sport and concentrated on home life.

Bundle of joy: Johnson's son Tatum Gretzky Johnson was born on January 19

Changed man: The golfer says fatherhood has helped him to put his bad boy party days behind him  

Love birds: Johnson proposed to Gretzky in August 2013 - as of now, there are no reports of where and when a wedding will take place.

Commenting on his time out, he said: 'I got to spend a lot of time with Paulina and help her as much as I could through her pregnancy, and then the birth of our son.

'I really enjoyed being able to be home and not having to leave or do anything.

'I was in the gym every single day, every morning, and then spend the rest of the time either I would go practice a little bit or just hanging out with Paulina.'

Johnson returned to the green in Febuary at the Farmers Insurance Open in Torrey Pines. As he won big on Sunday night, the two most important people in Johnson's life were waiting for him.

He concluded: 'Paulina and Tatum were waiting for me when I got done. That was the best part of the day for sure.'

'My game is in good form. I feel really confident in my golf swing. I need to do some work with the putter and short game, especially leading into Augusta.' 

Johnson proposed to Gretzky in August 2013. 

As of now, there are no reports of where and when a wedding will take place. 

@highlight

The new parents shared a passionate kiss in front of cameras, while cradling their newborn Tatum between them 

@highlight

Talking about how fatherhood had changed his life for the better, Johnson said: 'It kind of makes life a lot easier I think, just because there's just one thing that's kind of all you think about. It definitely simplifies stuff'

@highlight

He took a six-month break from golf over alleged cocaine and alcohol abuse last June Miss Alabama has said she was 'flattered' by fawning comments made by two ESPN commentators as she cheered on her quarterback boyfriends during Monday night's game.

Speaking on the Today show, Katherine Webb, 23, said that there was 'no need' for the network's apology on Tuesday after the enthusiastic remarks made Kirk Herbstreit and Brent Musburger, 73.

'If he had said something along the 
lines of we were hot or sexy or any derogatory statements like that, 
that would have been a bit different,' she told the Today show on Wednesday morning.

'The fact that he said we were beautiful and gorgeous - I don't see why any woman wouldn't be flattered by that.'

Scroll down for videos

Speaking out: Katherine Webb, who became an internet hit after ESPN commentators made gushing remarks about her as she cheered from the stands, said she was flattered by their comments

Webb, who is dating Alabama's quarterback A.J. McCarron, became an internet hit after cameras panned to her in the stands during the first quarter of the BCS Championship game between Alabama and Notre Dame on Monday.

'I'm telling you, you quarterbacks, you 
get all the good looking women,' Musburger gushed as the camera stayed on Webb. 
'What a beautiful woman.'

'Wow!' former Ohio State quarterback Kirk Herbstreit added. 'AJ's doing some things right down in Tuscaloosa.'

'If
 you're a youngster in Alabama, start getting the football out and throw
 it around the backyard with pop,' added Musburger, who has been married
 to his wife Arlene for 50 years.

Who's that girl? Miss Webb, quickly became an internet sensation after appearing on camera on Monday

Fan favourite: The model watched her boyfriend defeat Notre Dame with his mother, Dee Dee Bonner

With some media commentators and viewers branding their comments 'creepy', ESPN was forced to apologize on Tuesday.

'We
 always try to capture interesting
 storylines, and the relationship between an Auburn grad who is Miss 
Alabama USA and the current Alabama quarterback certainly met that test.
 However, we apologize that the commentary in this instance went too far
 and Brent understands that.'

But as well as Miss Webb herself, her father, Alan Webb, came to the defense of Musburger.

'On
 one hand, you can look at it as being kind of like the dirty old man,' 
he said. 'But I'm used to this and I think if you really look into what 
that he was trying to say, he was trying to be complimentary, and I 
think they need to give Brent a break.'

Fans: ESPN broadcasters Kirk Herbstreit, left, 
and Brent Musburger, right, voiced their admiration for Webb as the 
cameras picked her out in the crowd during the game on Monday night

Within minutes of ESPN broadcasting her image, Miss Webb became an internet sensation and saw her Twitter followers soar from around 2,300 to more than 205,000 by Tuesday evening.

Donald Trump took to Twitter to say he would be offering Webb a place as a judge at the next Miss USA Pageant.

'We are proud of her,' he added. 'What a great couple... Katherine Webb and AJ McCarron. They are both winners.'

She also caught the eye of Arizona 
Cardinals defensive end Darnell Dockett, who posted his phone number on 
Twitter as he attempted to ask her out.

However McCarron was quick to step up for his girlfriend, tweeting: '@ddockett
 u better worry ab being in them playoffs, then going to king of 
diamonds homie.. #betterkeepdreaming like the rest of these dude.'

All apologies: ESPN has said sorry to Miss Alabama USA 2012 after two of its sportscasters were caught on camera drooling over her at a game against Notre Dame

Oblivious: Miss Webb, who is the reigning Miss Alabama, had been watching the game from the stands with her boyfriend's mother when she attracted the attention of the ESPN hosts

He later posted on Twitter: '@ddockett boy
 stop! U gotta better chance with them strippers then this way homie 
know that. better stop eating them wings and win. All love.'

'[W]hen gave over [sic], lets go to wing stop then King of diamond,' Dockett had tweeted earlier, referring to a strip club.

He
 then realized the tweet was public, and added that it was supposed to 
be a direct message to her. The tweets have now been deleted.

Much to the disbelief of her boyfriend, Miss Webb also gained NBC star LeBron James as a follower.

'No way,' McCarron, 22, said repeatedly after learning about her new fan. 'Man, I'm going to Tweet him and I'm going to get a follow. That's messed up.'

Support: Webb and McCarron both laughed off the attention, and the QB added: 'I'm the one who's blessed'

Crowned: Katherine Webb during her reign as Miss Alabama USA at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas

Webb
 was also in shock about the reaction, revealing that her phone was 
drained of battery thanks to an influx of new followers, texts and 
calls.

'My followers went from 2,300 this 
morning to 96,000 by the end of the night,' she told Yahoo! Sports. 'I don't know if I should even
 check now, I don't know what is going on.

'I guess [Musburger] said something but I don't know what it was because I haven't seen it.''

But to McCarron, the attention came as no surprise.

'I know she's good looking,' McCarron 
said. 'She's gonna have guys that jaw-drop over her. That's life. I 
guess I'm the blessed one at the end of the day. She's gotta put up with
 me.'

Popular: After the broadcast, Webb's Twitter followers jumped from around 2,300 to more than 127,000

Model girlfriend: Webb, 23, also competed in Miss USA last year and placed in the top ten, left

Webb, who grew up in Montgomery, Alabama and graduated from Auburn, finished in the top ten in the Miss USA competition in June and lives and works as a model in Los Angeles.

McCarron and Webb met over Twitter 
when a friend connected them in November, and in December, the sportsman
 went to the pageant for Miss Alabama USA 2013, where Webb ended her 
reign.

The pair have been together since and grinned for photographs together on Christmas Eve.

They
 were pictured sharing a celebratory kiss at the end of the game on 
Monday - but after McCarron had already shared an embrace with his 
parents.

Together: The couple has been dating for a month after a friend connected them through Twitter

Beautiful: Webb, pictured left in an Alabama jersey, is a native of the state and an Auburn University alum

'That means he's a family guy, a mama's 
boy,' Webb told Yahoo! Sports. 'And I'm totally good 
with that. It's that personality that attracted me to him in the first 
place. It was never about his status on the team.'

McCarron also professed his admiration for his girlfriend.

'I think she was doing pretty well for 
herself before that, Miss Alabama and competing in Miss USA,' he said. 'She's a great girl and I'm happy we're together.'

Alabama beat Notre Dame 42-14 on Monday to win their third college football title in four years.

Winner: McCarron holds The Coaches' Trophy after the BCS National Championship college football game against Notre Dame on Monday night. Alabama won the title 42-14

Star player: McCarron threw four touchdown passes and finished with 264 yards through the air

McCarron threw four touchdown passes and finished with 264 yards through the air, while running back Eddie Lacy and receiver Amari Cooper had two scores each.

The victory confirmed Nick Saban as the most successful active coach in college football with four national titles, taking him within two of Alabama great Bear Bryant.

VIDEO: Miss Alabama calls remarks by commentators 'flattering'

Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy

@highlight

Katherine Webb, who has been dating Alabama quarterback A.J. McCarron for a month, was picked up by ESPN cameras on Monday night

@highlight

Commentator Brent Musburger, 73, gushed about her beauty and the network has now apologized for going 'too far'

@highlight

Webb, 23, was Miss Alabama 2012 and placed in the top ten in Miss USABy
Daily Mail Reporter

Downsizing: Ivana Trump has sold her Palm Beach home for $18 million

Ivana Trump sold her Palm Beach mansion for $18 million dollars - more than four times what she paid for the beachfront home 20 years ago.

The 14,406sq ft 'Concha Marina' is being purchased by an as-yet unidentified buyer for $900,000 below asking price, Gossip Extra reports.

For that princely sum, they will get a residence that boasts a private underground tunnel to the beach, nine bedrooms, and 13 bathrooms.

There is also a separate apartment built over the home's four-car garage.

Ms
 Trump, 65, says that she is vacating the home, her primary 
residence for the last 20 years, because her three children have grow up
 and she feels that it is time to downsize, Top Real Estate Deals reports.

In fact the oldest of Ms Trump's children - Donald Trump Jr - turned 36 in December.

He is followed by sister Ivanka, 32, and Eric, age 30.

Ms
 Trump originally bought her Palm Beach property in 1994 for $4.4 
million – two years after her divorce from Donald Trump - whose 
Mar-a-Lago club is just half a mile down the road.

For sale: Ivana Trump has put her Palm Beach home of 20 years on the market for $18.9 million

Massive size: The home is 14,406 square feet and comes with nine bedrooms and 13 bathrooms

But
 it does not seem that Ms Trump would have had any need to venture to 
the resort, as her own home boasts a decorative lotus-shaped swimming 
pool in the courtyard.

The 
house's charm comes courtesy of its designer - the famous 1920s Palm 
Beach architect Addison Mizner, whose career hallmarks are felt 
throughout the home.

Living quarters: The residence was designed by famous 1920s Palm Beach architect Addison Mizner, who was known for his Spanish-Moorish style

Built-in features The home comes equipped with an underground tunnel that leads out to the beach, as well as countless airy rooms that take advantage of Florida's warm climate

The American designer made a name for 
himself among the early Palm Beach set with his Spanish-Moorish home 
designs that accommodated Florida’s hot, humid weather.

Mr Mizner's airy homes emphasized cross-ventilation by keeping its kitchen in wings far away from their living quarters.

It is unknown where Ms Trump plans to reside once the home is sold.

@highlight

The 14,406sq ft 'Concha Marina' residence boasts a private underground tunnel to the beach, nine bedrooms, and 13 bathrooms

@highlight

The property is being purchased by an as-yet unidentified buyerBy 
Damien Gayle

PUBLISHED:

13:35 EST, 7 February 2013


| 

UPDATED:

03:31 EST, 8 February 2013

The bigger a CEO's signature the more likely he or she is to be a narcissist, a new study claims.

The research which compared the signatures of some 605 CEOs of U.S. firms found that size does matter where boss's autographs are concerned.

It found that bosses with bigger signatures also tended to get the highest pay, but were in fact more likely to run their companies into the ground.

Bosses: A study comparing the signatures of hundreds of CEOs of U.S. firms found that - when it comes to autographs - size does matter

Bold: Magnate Donald Trump's signature is seen scrawled at the bottom of this letter

The study by academics at the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina took 
the signatures of CEOs from company accounts filings with the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission.

The authors identify narcissism as an egotistical character trait 'associated with conceit and disregard for others'.

'Similarly, narcissism creates biased self-perception in the form of upwardly biased evaluation of one’s own abilities and performance,' they say in the paper.

These qualities make them bad decision makers, the study says, but enables them to convince directors and shareholders of their competency to the extent that they get better pay.

Flourish: President Barack Obama is seen signing his nomination for White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew to be named Treasury Secretary

Top boss: President Obama left his sizeable signature alongside wife Michelle's during their visit to Westminster Abbey in London

Professor Sean Wang, one of three authors of the study, told ABC News
that the 605 signatures analysed were found largely on annual reports 
and other documents filed by S&P 500 companies as of July 2011.

The S&P 500 index tracks the most valuable 500 companies listed on U.S. stock markets.

Signatures
were fed into a custom coded computer program which drew a rectangle 
around each of them and measured the area they covered.

'We standardized the measure by dividing the area by the number letters in the CEO's signature,' Professor Wang said.

Professor Wang said he and his 
co-authors relied on findings from previous psychological studies which 
claimed that bigger signatures mean bigger egos.

'Curly French fry': Jacob 'Jack' Lew's signature, which will appear on the dollar bill if he is confirmed as the new U.S. Treasury Secretary

Using
the size of the signature as a proxy for the writers' narcissism, they 
found that 'narcissistic CEOs invest more in capital expenditures and 
acquisitions but pay lower dividends, with overinvestments being largest
in magnitude when financial slack is high.

Aggressive managers who bully their staff are more likely to enjoy career success than even their more competent rivals because people are impressed by their dominance, a study claims.

Researchers found that people who were dominant had a greater influence on others, and could be easily and quickly picked out of a crowd.

In a two part study, 200 participants completed a problem-solving task in small groups while being videotaped, with volunteers rating each other's dominance, prestige and influence during the task, as well as their own.

The researchers defined prestige as the appearance of skill and competency, and dominance as having the ability to impose ideas on others through bullying and intimidation.

Results showed those who were more dominant or prestigious had a greater influence on the task and were seen as more influential by the participants.

In the second part, 60 extra participants watched a total of 120 seconds of short videos of the initial group interactions while wearing an eye-tracking device.

The University of British Columbia team found these participants paid significantly greater attention to individuals who appeared more dominant or prestigious, indicating their higher levels of influence.

The study also revealed while participants preferred leaders with prestige, they were more likely to choose dominant leaders, and were more forgiving of their behaviour.

'In
addition, narcissistic CEOs exhibit worse performance as measured by 
the contemporaneous return on assets, with the effects being largest 
when operating environments are most uncertain.

'Despite
the negative relationship between narcissism and firm performance, 
these CEOs receive both higher cash and stock compensation, as well as 
higher compensation relative to the next highest paid executive at their
firm.'

However, other experts where sceptical
of the paper's conclusions because of its assumption that a larger 
signature correlates to a bigger ego.

James Westerman and Jacqueline Bergman of Appalachian State University told ABC that other factors can determine signature size, including high self-esteem and an extroverted personality.

They also said that if high self-esteem was what lay behind a company boss's oversized autograph, it's possible that the firm could even benefit from such positive self assurance.

Professor Wang conceded this could be the case, but countered that he and his colleagues do not claim to have found a one-to-one correspondence between large signatures and badly run companies, merely that the relationship holds true on average.

To illustrate the point the researchers compared the relative performance of two companies competing in the same industry to the size of their CEOs' signatures.

Dell boss Michael Dell has a smaller scribble that Hewlett Packard boss Carly Fiorina, and HP underperformed Dell by getting a lower return on its investments.

Professor Wang told ABC that the CEO they studied with the biggest signature was Timothy Koogle, former boss Yahoo as CEO between 1995 and 2001, and chairman between 1999 and 2003.

Even allowing for the fact that Mr Koogle led Yahoo during the rise and fall of the internet bubble, the professor said he very much fitted their model.

Female leader: German Chancellor Angela Merkel's curly script

Swirling script: The signatures of bosses like Alan Sugar are said to give clues as to their character traits

Study: Is Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson's sizeable signature an indication of his staggering pay packet?

From 1997 to 2001, Yahoo paid no dividends, made 'extremely high investments' and gave Koogle some of the highest pay of any Silicon Valley boss.

The signatures of high-profile figures came under the spotlight in the U.S. last month when Barack Obama formally nominated White House chief of staff Jacob 'Jack' Lew for the post of Treasury Secretary.

If Mr Lew is confirmed as Treasury Secretary his 'childish' signature - which has been compared to a curly French fry - will grace the dollar bill.

The President joked that he had considered abandoning the nomination after learning of Mr Lew's bizarre and illegible signature.

Sign on the dotted line: Size does matter - at least when it comes to signatures - a new study suggests

VIDEO: Obama jokes about Jack Lew's signature in a speech at the White House

@highlight

Study compared the signatures of 605 CEOs of top U.S. companies

@highlight

It also found bosses with the biggest signatures got the highest pay

@highlight

But they were also more likely to run their companies into the groundMitt Romney has jokingly told supporters that he has never been asked to produce his birth certificate, as President Barack Obama has, because everyone knows that he and his wife are from Michigan.

There were gasps from reporters and laughs and cheers from the crowd of thousands as Romney, in an ill-judged attempt at humour, gave Democrats the opening to portray him as subscribing to the ‘Birther’ conspiracy theory that Obama is not an American.

‘No one has ever asked to see my birth certificate,’ Romney said. ‘They know that this was the place that we were born and raised.’

Joke? Mitt Romney told supporters that he has never been asked to produce his birth certificate, as President Barack Obama has, because everyone knows that he and his wife are from Michigan

There was an immediate, indignant 
response from the Obama campaign. Ben LaBolt, campaign spokesman, said 
in a statement: ‘Throughout this campaign, Governor Romney has embraced 
the most strident voices in his party instead of standing up to them. 

‘It’s one thing to give the stage in 
Tampa to Donald Trump, Sheriff Arpaio, and Kris Kobach. But Governor 
Romney’s decision to directly enlist himself in the birther movement 
should give pause to any rational voter across America.’

Romney was telling the crowd in Commerce, Michigan on Friday that he and wife Ann had been born in hospitals nearby.

‘Now I love being home in this place where Ann and I were raised, where both of us were born. Ann was born in Henry Ford Hospital,’ he said. ‘I was born in Harper Hospital.'

Campaigning: US Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney (2nd L) and his running mate Paul Ryan greet supporters during a campaign event at a farm in Commerce, Michigan, today

It was then that he said that he had never been asked to show his birth certificate.

The quip was an obvious reference to the theory propounded on the Right-wing fringe that Obama was not born in Hawaii, as a newspaper notice at the time and the long-form birth certificate produced by the White House show, but in Kenya.

For Romney, the subject is a perilous one because many independent voters view such theories as racist and an attempt to de-legitimise America’s first black president.

Romney is more vulnerable on the issue than many other Republicans because he publicly accepted the endorsement of Donald Trump, the billionaire property mogul and reality television star, who is an outspoken proponent of Birther theories.

At the time, Romney said he did not 
agree with Trump on Birtherism. ‘You know, I don't agree with all the 
people who support me and my guess is they don't all agree with 
everything I believe in. But I need to get 50.1 per cent or more and I'm
 appreciative to have the help of a lot of good people.'

Kevin
 Madden, a Romney spokesman, immediately sought to downplay the comment,
 saying that ‘the governor's been clear on this issue many times before’
 and viewed it as settled.

Proof is in the papers: Mr Obama released his birth certificate last April to try and quiet a debate within Republican circles that he was not born in the country

‘The governor has always said, and has repeatedly said, he believes the president was born here in the United States. He was only referencing that Michigan, where he is campaigning today, is the state where he himself was born and raised.’

LaBolt’s mention of Arpaio and Kobach was an attempt to link Romney to two of the most controversial figures on the Republican right. Arpaio is the Arizona sheriff who calls himself ‘America’s toughest sheriff’ and has gained notoriety for his determination to round up and arrest illegal immigrants.

Arpaio has also called into question Obama’s citizenship and carried out an investigation that concluded his long-form birth certificate was a forgery.

Kobach is the Kansas secretary of state who has filed a lawsuit challenging Obama’s directive that illegal immigrants brought to the U.S. as children by their parents should be allowed to stay in the country.

The claim that Obama is not a natural-born citizen of the US and is therefore not eligible for the presidency sprung up during the 2008 election campaign, when his official birth certificate was released by his aides.

There have been various theories put forward – that he was born in Kenya or that he became an Indonesian as a child or that he was a dual citizen at birth. A number of lawsuits have been brought on the issue, to no avail.

Conclusion: Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio 
announced on Tuesday, July 17, 2012, in Phoenix that President Obama's 
birth certificate, as presented by the White House in April 2011, is a 
forgery based on an investigation by the Sheriff's office

In April last year, the White House released Obama’s long-form birth certificate after polls suggested that at least a quarter of Americans were unsure where he was born. During the early stages of the Republican primary campaign, Trump, who said he was weighing candidacy, gained traction in the polls by alleging Obama was not born in the U.S.

Romney advisers said that his joke was unplanned. But many Obama supporters were quick to suggest that it was a dog whistle to racists and an attempt to whip up anger.

Republicans were quick to say that an Obama adviser had suggested Romney was a felon and a super PAC campaign ad linked him to the death of a woman who succumbed to cancer.

At best, Romney’s joke was a tactical blunder because it undermined his promise to run a substantive campaign about big issues and took the focus of the campaign away from what voters care about most – jobs and the economy.

Mitt Romney was born in Detroit, Michigan in 1947 and his wife Ann in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan in 1949. Barack Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1961 and Donald Trump in Queens, New York in 1946.

@highlight

Mitt Romney said everyone knows he and his wife are from Michigan

@highlight

The joke was a reference to the 'birther' conspiracy theory that Obama was born in Kenya and not Hawaii

@highlight

Obama campaign said the Republican's remarks 'should give pause to any rational voter across America'They may be known for their glossy hair, picture-perfect make-up and bikini bodies, but judging by the packed itinerary, the Miss Universe contestants will have to prove they are both beauty and brains.

Nearly 90 of the world’s most beautiful women descended on Miami on Monday ahead the 2014 Miss Universe pageant and it looks like they've got a tough few weeks ahead.

The preliminary competition, which includes evening gown, swimsuit and the interview rounds, will take place on Wednesday 21 January - but that doesn't mean the preparations haven't begun.

Scroll down for video 

(l-r) Josselyn Garciglia,  Miss Mexico , Noyonita Lodh, Miss India, and Silvia Prochadzkova,  Miss Slovak Republic, pose in Yamamay for Miss Universe swimwear upon arriving to Trump National Doral Miami for the 63rd Annual Miss Universe Pageant, Miami, Florida, America

Women from dozens of countries - including Albania, El Salvador, Great Britain and Haiti - have been preparing backstage for the biggest week of their lives.

The event's official photographer followed the women, who are touring, filming, rehearsing and preparing to compete, and captured the lengthy preparation processes, from getting their haired coiffed to having dresses fitted.

The events schedule kicks off on Friday with a drinks reception. Miss Universe contestants will be introduced to the public and to the City of Doral, where the event is being held, for the first time on stage at the Downtown Doral Park. Quite fittingly, there will be a pink carpet for VIP arrivals.

To show off their modelling skills, on Saturday the Miss Universe contestants will be showcasing fashion brand Chinese Laundry's spring 2015 collection while wearing the latest footwear styles from the label. Later in the day, the ladies will put their best foot forward with salsa dancing lessons.

The women, including Valentina Bonariva, Miss Italy, who poses with her country flag, left, and Josselyn Garciglia, Miss Mexico, have a tough couple of weeks ahead of them before the Miss Universe finals on January 25

Miss Australia Tegan Martin poses in her evening gown at the 63rd annual Miss Universe Pageant in Miami ahead of the week of events

(l-r) Artnesa Krasniqi, Miss Kosovo, Pimbongkod Chankaew, Miss Thailand, and Ivana Misura, Miss Croatia, all pose in their evening gowns ahead of the event, which will see them attending cocktail receptions and fashion shows

Silvia Prochadzkova, Miss Slovak Republic, gets her hair done while she poses for photographs backstage

Silvia Prochadzkova, Miss Slovak Republic, reclines on a lounger at the hotel, owned by Donald Trump

On Sunday, they will enjoy a Graffiti Art Experience by visiting pop artist Romero Britto’s studio for an interactive painting event. Then, they will take part in the celebration of the nations with  a cultural parade and an afternoon of live music, dancing, food carts, and mingling. 

The parade will feature marching bands and a variety of luxury cars showcasing the Miss Universe contestants. Local restaurants will hold a gastronomic festival and multicultural dances will take place.

The following week kicks off with a golf putting tournament, zumba lessons and a cooking contest. Contestants will also show their charitable side when they accompany Miss Universe 2014, Gabriela Isler, on a visit to FFP, the largest international charity in the United States that serves the poor in countries in the Caribbean and Latin America.

There will also be a Yamamay swimsuit fashion show and a gifting auction. Every year, the contestants bring a gift from their country that will be donated to a silent auction to support a selected charity. This is a special annual event and this year proceeds will go to Best Buddies, a long-term partner of the Miss Universe Organization’s. 

The ladies will also get to let their hair down ahead of the preliminary competition at a VIP cocktail reception  at Image Skincare, the official skincare sponsor. There will be a DJ, red carpet and the women will carry out interviews with press.  

Following on from the preliminary round, the top 15 women will be chosen and they will go straight into the National Costume round the same night.

The finals will be held at the FIU Arena on Sunday 25 January, when Venezuelan Miss Universe 2013, Gabriela Isler, will hand over her crown. 

Grace Levy, Miss Great Britain, captures a picture of herself using a selfie stick as she waits poolside

Miss Australia Tegan Martin and one of her fellow competitors pose with their shopping bags and post the snap on Instagram 

The Miss Universe contestants are touring, filming, rehearsing and preparing to compete for the Miss Universe 2014 crown to be decided on 25 January in Miami. Here, Miss Universe India, Noyonita Lodh, has her hair done by a stylist backstage

(l-r) Josselyn Garciglia, Miss Mexico, Noyonita Lodh, Miss India, and Silvia Prochadzkova, Miss Slovak Republic pose in swimwear in Miami

Grace Levy, Miss Great Britain, and Yoo Bin, Miss Korea, pose in Yamamay in Miss Universe robes after arriving to Trump National Doral Miami

Nia Sanchez, Miss USA, poses in Yamamay swimwear upon arriving at the event before the week-long events

Miss Australia Tegan Martin sits down with Miss Universe Chief Photo Editor Francis L. Szelwach to review her photos after posing in swimwear at the 63rd annual Miss Universe pageant

Miss Hungary, Henrietta Kelemen, gets her hair done at the 63rd annual Miss Universe Pageant in Miami, Florida, ahead of the grand finale

Aiday Issayeva, Miss Kazakhstan poses in her evening gown as she joins pageant contestants preparing to compete for the crown

Johana Riva Garabetian, Miss Uruguay, poses in her dazzling pink evening gown

Miss Puerto Rico Gabriela Berrios poses in her evening gown, left, and Miss Italy Valentina Bonariva poses with her country flag, right

The contestants, including Niketa Barker, Miss Universe Guyana, left, and Miss Hungary, Henrietta Kelemen, right, get primped and primed by the make-up artists backstage

Henrietta Kelemen tries on her Sherri Hill gown with wardrobe assistant Mark Zappone backstage at the event in Miami

Miss India 2014, Noyonita Lodh, has her hair tousled backstage as she and the other women prepare to go head-to-head in the pageant

Donald J. Trump and Paula M. Shugart, president of the Miss Universe Organization, recently revealed that Today show host Natalie Morales and MSNBC’s Thomas Roberts will host the 63rd pageant, a three-hour show that airs on NBC. 

It has also been rumoured that Filipino boxer, Manny Pacquioa, will be a judge, although he is yet to confirm his place on the panel.

Among the notable contestants is Miss Great Britain, Grace Levy, an events executive from London.

Grace, who studied psychology  in Bristol, worked as an event manager of her own annual charity event and starred on popular British dating show, Take Me Out.

Miss Australia, 22-year-old Tegan Martin, hails from Newcastle, the same town as Miss Universe 2004, Jennifer Hawkins.

Tegan, who worked as a model in Paris, came second in Miss Universe Australia twice before she won on her third and final attempt. 

Nia Sanchez, Miss USA 2014, left, is interviewed by Director of New Media, Dena Muehlfeld, upon arriving to Trump National Doral Miami 

90 of the world's most beautiful women descended on Miami to compete in the annual Miss Universe competition 

How do I look? One Miss Universe contestant checks back her photo taken by one of the competition's photographers

Tegan, who is studying for a Bachelor of Nutritional Medicine, has hopes of raising awareness of mental health in youth. She is also part of a youth mentoring program helping schoolgirls struggling with confidence.

Miss USA, 24-year-old Nia Sanchez, is half Hispanic, and has travelled across the world on countless mission trips. 

After working as a full-time model for the past seven years, she landed a face character role at Hong Kong Disney World.

The popular contest was established in 1952 as a local 'bathing beauty' competition spearheaded by Catalina Swimwear in Long Beach, California. 

Speaking about the pageant, a spokesperson for the event said: 'These women are savvy, goal-oriented and aware. The delegates who become part of the Miss Universe Organization display those characteristics in their everyday lives, both as individuals, who compete with hope of advancing their careers, personal and humanitarian goals, and as women who seek to improve the lives of others.'

This year's event hasn't come without controversy; tensions are rife in the event's city of Doral, who pledged $2.5million from its reserves to support Trump’s beauty pageant, according to the Miami Herald. 

Nia Sanchez, Miss USA; and Zuleica Wilson, Miss Universe Angola; try on their Sherri Hill gowns upon arriving to Trump National Doral Miami

Doron Matalon, Miss Universe Israel, relaxes while waiting to pose in Yamamay for Miss Universe swimwear

Zuleica Wilson, Miss Universe Angola, gets makeup done by an OP Makeup Studio Cosmetics artist

After having their hair and make-up perfected, the competitors pose for a series of official Miss Universe photographs 

Miss Myanmar Sharr Eaindra poses in her evening gown. She competed in the Miss Universe Myanmar 2014 pageant, which was only the second time in over 50 years the pageant was held for the country

Mary Jean Lastimosa, Miss Philippines, left, and Jimena Espinosa, Miss Peru, right, pose in their evening gowns

Miss Paraguay poses for a scenic snap ahead of the competition kicking off

The contestants, including Miss Brazil and Miss Kosovo, prepare for the swimsuit round

Grace Levy, Miss Great Britain, revealeds her 'patriotic' costume on Facebook

Grace Levy, Miss Great Britain, recently revealed her national costume on her Facebook page.

Alongside the image, she wrote: 'My national costume is the epitome of Great Britain, and mostly London where I live. 

'My costume portrays a sense of how I feel about being a modern day woman in my city; passionate, strong and empowered, whilst at the same time giving me the opportunity to represent something which people immediately know as British.

'It also reflects the protection of the monarchy and how patriotic I feel towards them. 

'I spent days exploring my city to find inspiration and I discovered that London is a city which is completely dedicated to them; hence why I finally decided to base my national costume on the Royal Guards of Buckingham Palace. 

'My costume was designed by myself and handmade using the same textiles and embellishments from the same factory that make all official regalia for the royal family and their guards. 

'This has made my costume that little bit more special. The factory also happens to make the costumes for smash hit British TV series Game of Thrones. 

'I can't wait to represent the greatness of Britain on stage in Miami! To the people of GB..... This is for YOU.'

However, not everyone was taken with Miss GB's patriotic look. 

Fashion writer Simon Glazin (theverysimong.com) todl FEMAIL: 'This, she says, shows how she feels about the Monarchy. Not a great deal, by the looks of it!

'It looks more like a cheap, tacky tribute to Cheryl Cole.'There is nothing here that will protect the Monarchy. 

'In fact, if I was the Queen, I'd make sure she's ousted from the country immediately.' 

 

@highlight

Nearly 90 contestants from around the world have landed in Miami for contest

@highlight

In next few weeks will learn golf, salsa, cooking and model swimsuits  

@highlight

Preliminary competition includes evening gown, swimsuit and interviews and happens on January 21

@highlight

Final is held on January 25 - Gabriela Isler of Venezuela took home last year's crown By 
Daily Mail Reporter

PUBLISHED:

19:22 EST, 14 May 2013


| 

UPDATED:

23:39 EST, 14 May 2013

Donald Trump took to the witness stand in court today after being accused of wooing investors into buying condos with the promise of profit-sharing, then reneging on the promise after the sale.

The property developer who found fame for firing incompetent contestants on The Apprentice found himself in the line of fire, as the plaintiff's attorney sought to demonstrate to the jury that Trump and his companies had engaged in a 'bait-and-switch'.

The civil trial is centered around Trump's namesake 92-storey skyscraper, two blocks from Chicago's Magnificent Mile in Michigan Avenue.

Court date: Donald Trump arrives at Dirksen Court to testify in a civil case about Trump Tower in Chicago

Shelly Kulwin, the lawyer for Jacqueline Goldberg, sought to establish that Trump was a hands-on manager, while Trump said he was a big-picture executive.

'The primary thing is to build a great building,' Trump told jurors, leaning into a microphone and speaking calmly and steadily. 'You can't fool people.''That's an interesting infomercial,' Mr Kulwin responded. He later told the judge that Trump was not answering his questions, adding: 'He's giving a speech.'Trump's testimony is said by both sides to be key to the trial's outcome. He could remain on the stand for days, talking about the development of the luxury Trump International Hotel & Tower.

Witness stand: Trump's testimony is said to be key to the civil trial in Chicago

The trial stems from a lawsuit filed by Ms Goldberg, 87, who in 2006 agreed to buy two condos for about $1 million each at the skyscraper.

The building, which has more than 300 hotel rooms and nearly 500 condominiums, is in a prime location along the Chicago River.

The lawsuit that alleges breach of 
contract and deceptive practices seeks the return of a $500,000 deposit 
Ms Goldberg made for the properties and other unspecified damages.

Her lawyer portrayed the sale of the 
condos as a bait-and-switch, where Trump and his executives sought to 
make the properties more attractive investments by telling prospective 
buyers they would reap a percentage of profits from banquet hall 
rentals, food sales, laundry, parking and other services.

Trump's stardom and real estate successes were also touted in condo sales pitches.In his opening statement, Mr Kulwin said: ' "Who better to go into the hotel business with than Donald Trump?" she thought.'.

One reason Trump summarily cancelled the
profit-sharing plan, Mr Kulwin said, was because he had failed to 
entice a corporate tenant to rent several floors of the building, 
cutting into the tower's potential profit.

The profit he had promised to make condos a more attractive investment he now needed for himself, Mr Kulwin said.

When
Ms Goldberg completed her purchase in 2006, Mr Kulwin alleged, Trump 
and other executives knew the profit-sharing offer would be withdrawn.

Luxury: The case centres around the 92-storey Trump International Hotel & Tower in Chicago

It was only formally withdrawn in 2009, however, a few months before the tower's grand opening, he added.

'They made a deal and then they said, "Surprise! No deal",' Mr Kulwin said.

Stephen Novack, Trump's attorney, said that Ms Goldberg was a sophisticated, longtime investor who signed documents explicitly giving Trump executives the power to revoke the profit-sharing offer if they saw fit.

In an apparent bid to deflect any blame from Trump, Mr Novack sought to counter the portrayal of Trump as a hands-on executive, in his opening statement.

'Donald Trump delegates most decisions,'
Mr Novack said, noting that he had 2,500 employees. 'It would be 
impossible for him to be in the details of each project.'

Switched on: Property developer Trump found fame firing contestants on the TV show The Apprentice

He insisted the decision to change the profit-sharing provision was someone else's and it was one that Trump agreed to only later.

After an hour of testimony The Chicago Tribune said Trump left the city's Dirksen U.S.Courthouse, giving a thumbs up to reporters and saying: 'I love Chicago.'

He is due to return to the stand Wednesday morning.

Sorry we are unable to accept comments for legal reasons.

@highlight

Civil case centers on luxury Trump Tower in Chicago

@highlight

TV star and property developer in witness stand at courtBy 
Daily Mail Reporter and Associated Press

PUBLISHED:

16:35 EST, 23 May 2013


| 

UPDATED:

16:43 EST, 23 May 2013

Donal Trump has defeated an 87-year-old grandmother in court.

A Chicago jury found on Thursday that the billionaire reality TV star did not deceive Jacqueline Goldberg as part of a $6million condo deal in his glitzy Trump International Hotel & Tower in downtown Chicago.

In closing arguments, Goldberg's lawyer blasted Trump and claimed he lied on the witness stand during the trial to protect himself.

Shelly Kulwin claimed that Trump only took the stand 'to lie, evade and spout infomercials.'

Victory: Billionaire Donald Trump will not have to pay a Chicago grandmother $6million after jurors found he did not deceive her about a condo investment deal

Furious: Attorney Shelly B. Kulwin escorts his client Jacqueline Goldberg out of the federal courtroom after Goldberg lost her lawsuit against Trump

'It’s called a bait and switch. Here’s the bait. Here’s the switch,' he said.

'The measure of your conduct is not, should not and cannot be "I know what I’m doing is wrong but can I get away with it? ... And if I do get caught, can I spin it?"'

Goldberg herself showed little emotion after the verdict but her attorney, Kulwin, slumped over and buried his head on a courtroom table. Trump's attorney Stephen Novack smiled and nodded his head in gratitude at the jury.

The case pitted the suburban Chicago woman against a New Yorker who revels in his image as a big talker with big ideas. Many know him best for his catchphrase on his 'Apprentice" TV show: 'You're fired!'

In sarcasm-filled closings, Kulwin described Trump in stark, extreme terms , as villainous and greedy. Trump wasn't in court, but Kulwin displayed a giant photograph of Trump.

'The thought of my grandma being in the same room with that guy. Yuck!' Kulwin boomed.

Grand: The lawsuit centers on a 2006 deal that Goldberg made to buy two $1million condos in the Trump International Hotel & Tower

The dispute centered on the Trump International Hotel & Tower in Chicago, one of several showcase towers Trump has named after himself elsewhere, including New York, Las Vegas and Hawaii.

Goldberg accused Trump of wooing her into buying two condos at $1 million apiece in the mid-2000s by dangling a promise of share in building profits, then reneging on the promise after she committed to buying.

At trial, Novack grappled with the portrayal of Goldberg as a former waitress and hat-check girl who learned her values living through the Depression and working her way through college.

He told jurors in his closing he also loved grandmothers, saying, 'I happen to be married to one.'

But, he added, Goldberg was also a sophisticated, detail-oriented investor who signed a contract stipulating Trump could do what he did: cancel the profit-sharing plan anytime he saw fit.

An often-scowling Trump spent two days testifying himself, bragging about the quality of his developments, verbally sparring with an opposing attorney and drawing rebukes from the judge.

Trump took the stand earlier this month to defend his company. He went on the offensive and claimed the 87-year-old woman was trying to 'rip him off'

On the stand, Trump denied he ever cheated anyone. Off it, he blasted the woman who brought him there, telling reporters he was the victim, not her. He declared, 'She's trying to rip me off.'

Goldberg isn't the first to complain about a Trump development.

Dozens of investors in the Las Vegas' five-year-old Trump International Hotel & Tower sued Trump, alleging he manufactured 'a purchasing frenzy' to get them to buy in before the property market collapsed.

An arbiter, though, sided with Trump in 2011, and U.S. District Judge Gloria M Navarro in Las Vegas later refused the disgruntled investors' request to nullify the arbitration finding.

When Goldberg took the stand herself after Trump, she told jurors she initially had qualms about suing such an influential figure. But she added, 'Somebody had to stand up to him.'

Goldberg told jurors it was Trump's very star power that initially drew her toward investing with him. But it was the profit-sharing proposal that, for her, sealed the deal, she said.

Goldberg said she filed the lawsuit in an effort to 'stand up to' the reality TV star billionaire

During his testimony, Trump kept talking over Kulwin while Kulwin kept rolling his eyes at Trump's answers, prompting Judge Amy St. Eve to order both men to 'stop boxing each other' and behave.

Trump's testimony offered a rare inside look at the business style of the 66-year-old who scrutinizes the competence of contestants carrying out management tasks on his TV show.

He told jurors that he signed every business check in his organization. He also said he couldn't remember when key business decisions were made because he and his top executives aren't in the habit of taking notes.

City pride also intervened at one point in closings when Kulwin made an unfavorable reference to executives in New York.

'Judge, he's mocking New York,' Trump's attorney said, standing to object.

'I can't mock New York?' Kulwin shot back. 'I thought it was every Chicagoans right to do that.'

@highlight

Jacqueline Goldberg sued Trump, claiming he reneged on a deal to share profits if she bought two $1million condos in his Chicago tower

@highlight

Trump counter-punched during his testimony on the stand, claiming, 'She's trying to rip me off'